<DOC>
<DOCNO> WSJ870519-0060 </DOCNO>
<HL> 

At Risk of a Recession
---
To Mollify Foreign Investors,
Central Bank Tightens Up
Despite Weak Economy
---
A Global Game of 'Chicken'
---
By Paul Blustein
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal</HL>
<DD> 05/19/87</DD>
<SO> WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)</SO>
<IN> MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FINANCIAL, INSURANCE, MUTUAL FUNDS, ACCOUNTING, LEASING (FIN)
BANKS, THRIFT INSTITUTIONS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED) </IN>
<DATELINE> WASHINGTON  </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Once or twice a year, usually in time of financial turbulence, the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee holds an emergency telephone conference over its private line. 
One such conference, according to Fed sources, was held April 29. 

   Chairman Paul Volcker told panel members that the financial markets needed assurance that the Fed was moving to stem the U.S. dollar's plunge. 
The members agreed. 
The following day, Mr. Volcker made an unusual disclosure at a congressional hearing: The Fed, he said, had raised short-term interest rates in an effort to make dollar-denominated investments more attractive to foreign investors. 
The dollar promptly rallied, although it retreated a bit in subsequent days. 

   The episode indicates the dollar's important role in the central bank's decision-making. 
Not since the foreign-exchange crisis of the late 1970s has monetary policy been so encumbered by currency worries. 
The Fed has been tightening credit to shore up the dollar despite the weak domestic economy. 
At best, many analysts contend, this policy will keep interest rates high and kill any chance for economic growth to speed up any time soon. 
At worst, it may cause a recession. 

   "Fed policy is now increasingly influenced and even dictated by the needs of our foreign creditors," says Norman Robertson, the chief economist at the Mellon Bank. 
"The Fed has to be very, very careful not to provoke a renewed attack on the dollar. 
So, there is going to be a floor under interest rates even though economic growth is likely to be something less than exuberant for the rest of the year." 
And if the dollar should resume its fall, Mr. Robertson adds, the Fed will tighten further -- at the risk of an economic slump. 

   Considerations besides the dollar are influencing Fed policy, of course; chief among them is inflation, which is closely related to the currency issue because the lower dollar makes imports more costly. 
Recent upticks in commodity and wholesale prices increase the likelihood of a vote to squeeze credit by the central bank's policy-making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, which is holding one of its regularly scheduled meetings today in Washington. 

   But the dollar is dominating the central bank's agenda this year. 
Fed officials contend that they must defend the greenback because a renewed slide could provoke huge withdrawals of foreign funds from American markets and thus severely strain an American economy grown dependent on foreign borrowing. 

   "That volatility in exchange rates and interest rates in recent weeks gives a little taste of how vulnerable our own financial markets and our economy have become to what other people think," Mr. Volcker said in a speech May 11 at Emory University. 
"We are obviously in danger of losing control over our own economic destiny." 

   This danger, according to Mr. Volcker and other Fed officials, is due to the huge budget and trade deficits because the need to finance them forces the U.S. to borrow abroad. 
The billions that America must borrow and the price it must now pay to keep its creditors satisfied mean "we have mortgaged our future," the Fed chief says. 

   The dollar problem has complicated matters enormously at the Fed, which has assumed -- by default rather than by choice -- the primary role in steering the economy. 
With President Reagan and Congress failing to agree on anything beyond modest deficit reductions, fiscal policy has been all but immobilized. 
So, the nation's economic welfare has come increasingly to depend on the Fed's skill at ladling out the right dosage of reserves to the banking system. 
Also at stake is the future of Mr. Volcker, whose credibility in financial markets has evoked a Wall Street campaign urging his reappointment this summer to a third four-year term. 

   Heavy reliance on the Fed is dangerous because monetary policy is a blunt instrument that can't be aimed at specific sectors of the economy. 
In the past, the central bank has sought to foster inflation-free growth by focusing on different variables -- sometimes the money supply, sometimes interest rates, sometimes a bit of everything. 
Now, the currency problems are presenting the Fed with a new crucial variable on top of all others it must worry about, including the debt burdens borne by Third World nations. 

   Faced with the dollar's shakiness, "the Fed may have to forgo other objectives -- the most obvious being an acceptable rate of advance for the U.S. economy," says Robert Barbera, the chief economist at E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. 
An apt analogy, he says, is a juggler barely managing to keep three balls in the air and suddenly handed a fourth. 
"If he's handed a fourth ball," Mr. Barbera says, "he's got to drop one of the other three." 

   If the U.S. slides into a recession, of course, the Fed would abandon its concern over the dollar. 
"Suppose the economy falls out of bed," one Fed official says. 
"We're going to have to do something. 
We can't just sit there and keep money tight." 
The consensus is that a stable currency isn't worth a depression. 

   Moreover, the central bank is willing to take some chances with the foreign-exchange markets. 
Mr. Volcker and his colleagues believe that the best solution to the dollar's woes is not for the Fed to tighten but for America's major trading partners, especially Japan and West Germany, to cut their interest rates and thus make the dollar more attractive relative to the yen and mark. 

   It would also stimulate the Japanese and German economies, causing those countries to buy more U.S. products and rely less on exports for their growth. 
That was the idea behind the interest-rate reduction announced by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone on April 30, the same day that Mr. Volcker disclosed the Fed's move to tighten up. 

   There has been speculation that the Fed and Japanese and West German central banks will soon act in concert, with U.S. rates rising and rates abroad falling. 
Depending on market conditions, such coordinated moves could precede the June 8-10 seven-nation economic summit in Venice. 

   To prod Tokyo and Bonn, the Fed is willing, to some degree, to play "chicken" with the dollar. 
The Fed knows that if the dollar falls, the export-oriented economies of Japan and West Germany would be hurt; so those countries may ease credit and perhaps eliminate the Fed's need to tighten. 

   Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson hinted at such a strategy recently. 
He indicated that the Fed would place top priority on domestic economic concerns and wouldn't automatically raise interest rates if the dollar fell. 
The reason for the dollar's weakness, he said, "appears to be relatively tighter policies abroad rather than too-loose policies here." 

   But the central bank is clearly tilting its policy toward supporting the dollar. 
Even the Fed's day-to-day activities in the credit markets "appear to be conducted with an eye toward the dollar," observes David Hale, the chief economist at Kemper Financial Services Inc. 
"On days of dollar weakness, the Fed supplies fewer reserves than expected," exerting upward pressure on interest rates. 
This goes beyond what it was doing in prior months, when it intervened in foreign-exchange markets by buying dollars to combat panic selling. 

   Fed officials acknowledge that monetary policy is tighter than it would be if they were looking solely at the domestic economy. 
"A lot of indicators point to slower demand growth," says one staffer, citing recent anemic figures on consumption and business spending. 
The seemingly robust expansion in the first quarter, when gross national product grew at a 4.3% inflation-adjusted annual rate, was attributable largely to inventory building by businesses and isn't likely to be repeated. 

   Some at the central bank fret about signs of rekindled inflation, such as the 0.7% April jump in wholesale prices. 
But others concur with former Fed Governor Lyle Gramley, who sees little danger so long as wages continue to rise at a snail's pace. 
While at the Fed, Mr. Gramley was known as an anti-inflation "hawk," but he notes that over the past year average compensation per hour has decelerated steadily and in the first quarter was up at an annual rate of less than 2%. 

   The dollar, rather than inflation, is indisputably the force impelling the Fed to pull in its credit reins, according to Mr. Gramley, who now is the chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
"If one sees the economy growing at a moderate rate this year, say 2.5% {close to the Fed's official forecast}, one might be inclined to think that such a growth rate is disappointing. 
So, one might think that the Fed ought to ease," he says. 
But such a step, he adds, "would be totally unwarranted. 
If the Fed sent a signal to the markets that it was unconcerned about the dollar, the dollar might very well go into the tank, and that would push interest rates up, not down." 

   This possibility -- an interest-rate increase caused by easier monetary policy -- seems paradoxical. 
But it could happen, economists say, because if foreigners expect the dollar to depreciate significantly, they would insist on higher interest rates as the price for keeping money invested in the U.S. Foreign and other investors would rush to sell Treasury securities, and market interest rates, in turn, would rise. 

   Fear of such a development is keeping the Fed's credit grip firm. 
But what would the Fed do if the economy weakens and the dollar starts to plunge again? 

   "That would be a terribly difficult situation," says a Fed official, who terms the question too hypothetical to be answered definitively. 
In general, though, he says, "You'd have to be sensitive to the exchange rate, because if the exchange rate in those circumstances really got away from you, then you'd have the worst of both worlds. 
Interest-rate pressures would become very acute, and you'd accentuate forces for slowdown in the economy." 

   The Fed's policy is drawing criticism from some economists, who contend that the dollar must fall farther to shrink the U.S. trade deficit sufficiently. 
The Fed is foolish to try to prevent that decline, the critics say, and it risks being distracted from more important economic goals. 

   Though conceding that the critics may be proved right about the dollar's eventual level, Fed officials argue that the U.S. products ought to be competitive in world markets at current exchange rates and that the greenback must stabilize, at least for a while. 
What's more, they say they haven't abandoned their traditional aims. 
"The primary goal is price stability," says Robert Parry, the president of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank. 
"Other goals {such as the dollar} receive additional weight when it appears as though they warrant additional attention." 

   The dollar has influenced Fed strategy before, of course; as recently as 1985 and 1986, the central bank was trying to help bring the U.S. currency down from its lofty peaks in order to shrink the trade gap. 
But during most of that time, the Fed's foreign-exchange goal required a policy -- easy credit -- similar to that required for a sluggish domestic economy. 

   Now, with the dollar in a danger zone and the economy still far from vigorous, the Fed finds itself with sharply conflicting goals. 
Some analysts, including Mr. Volcker, warned of the potential for such a dilemma, and a few seem to take grim satisfaction in being proved right. 

   "The days of the banana-republic expansion fed by foreign borrowing are fast coming to an end," says Paul Boltz, a financial economist at T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. "No nation, not even the largest economic power on earth, can borrow unlimited quantities from foreigners without consequences to the exchange value of its currency, inflation and the performance of its economy." 

</TEXT>
</DOC>