clueweb12-0012wb-00-00000	
Argumentative:WordPress Admin WARC/1.0
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00002	
Argumentative:1:5 This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
Argumentative:1:9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
Argumentative:1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
Argumentative:2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not.
Argumentative:And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous: 2:2 And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not for our's only, but also for the sins of the whole world.
Argumentative:2:3 And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
Argumentative:2:6 He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked.
Argumentative:2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth.
Argumentative:2:10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him.
Argumentative:2:12 I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake.
Argumentative:I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one.
Argumentative:I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father.
Argumentative:2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.
Argumentative:2:18 Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last time.
Argumentative:He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son.
Argumentative:2:23 Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also.
Argumentative:2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life.
Argumentative:2:27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.
Argumentative:2:28 And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.
Argumentative:2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him.
Argumentative:3:1 Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.
Argumentative:3:3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
Argumentative:3:7 Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
Argumentative:Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
Argumentative:3:14 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren.
Argumentative:He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.
Argumentative:3:15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
Argumentative:3:16 Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
Argumentative:3:17 But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?
Argumentative:3:19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.
Argumentative:3:20 For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.
Argumentative:3:21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God.
Argumentative:3:22 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.
Argumentative:3:23 And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
Argumentative:And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us.
Argumentative:4:4 Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.
Argumentative:4:5 They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them.
Argumentative:4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.
Argumentative:If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
Argumentative:4:13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.
Argumentative:4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.
Argumentative:4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment.
Argumentative:He that feareth is not made perfect in love.
Argumentative:5:1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him.
Argumentative:5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments.
Argumentative:And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.
Argumentative:5:10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son.
Argumentative:5:11 And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
Argumentative:5:14 And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us: 5:15 And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him.
Argumentative:5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death.
Argumentative:5:20 And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ.
Argumentative:5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth: 1:7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.
Argumentative:The Bible - First General Epistle of John - Ancinet-Mythology.com First General Epistle of John 1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life; 1:2 (For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;) 1:3 That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ.
Argumentative:1:4 And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00004	
Argumentative:1:5 Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.
Argumentative:saith the LORD of hosts.
Argumentative:Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.
Argumentative:1:12 Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him, and the people did fear before the LORD.
Argumentative:1:13 Then spake Haggai the LORD's messenger in the LORD's message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith the LORD.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:1:7 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.
Argumentative:The Bible - Haggai 1 - Ancinet-Mythology.com Haggai 1 1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying, 1:2 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the LORD's house should be built.
Argumentative:1:3 Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying, 1:4 Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste?
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00006	
Argumentative:1:5 And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The LORD will be magnified from the border of Israel.
Argumentative:1:8 And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil?
Argumentative:and if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil?
Argumentative:saith the LORD of hosts.
Argumentative:saith the LORD of hosts.
Argumentative:1:10 Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for nought?
Argumentative:I have no pleasure in you, saith the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.
Argumentative:1:11 For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:1:6 A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour?
Argumentative:The Bible - Malachi 1 - Ancinet-Mythology.com Malachi 1 1:1 The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
Argumentative:Was not Esau Jacob's brother?
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00008	
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC/
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00010	
Argumentative:1:24 Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded; 1:25 But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof: 1:26 I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; 1:27 When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.
Argumentative:1:31 Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.
Argumentative:The Bible - Proverbs 1 - Ancinet-Mythology.com Proverbs 1 1:1 The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; 1:2 To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding; 1:3 To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity; 1:4 To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.
Argumentative:1:32 For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:1:5 A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels: 1:6 To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.
Argumentative:1:8 My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: 1:9 For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.
Argumentative:1:11 If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause: 1:12 Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit: 1:13 We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil: 1:14 Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse: 1:15 My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path: 1:16 For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.
Argumentative:1:17 Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.
Argumentative:1:18 And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives.
Argumentative:1:19 So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof.
Argumentative:and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00012	
Argumentative:This is Atreides, wide-ruling Agamemnon, one that is both a goodly king and mighty spearman.
Argumentative:Homer - The Iliad - Ancinet-Mythology.com Homer - The Iliad Book III How Menelaos and Paris fought in single combat; and Aphrodite rescued Paris.
Argumentative:Now when they were arrayed, each company with their captains, the Trojans marched with clamour and with shouting like unto birds, even as when there goeth up before heaven a clamour of cranes which flee from the coming of winter and sudden rain, and fly with clamour towards the streams of ocean, bearing slaughter and fate to the Pigmy men, and in early morn offer cruel battle.
Argumentative:But on the other side marched the Achaians in silence breathing courage, eager at heart to give succour man to man.
Argumentative:Even as when the south wind sheddeth mist over the crests of a mountain, mist unwelcome to the shepherd, but to the robber better than night, and a man can see no further than he casteth a stone; even so thick arose the gathering dust-clouds at their tread as they went; and with all speed they advanced across the plain.
Argumentative:So when they were now come nigh in onset on each other, godlike Alexandros played champion to the Trojans, wearing upon his shoulders panther-skin and curved bow and sword; and he brandished two bronze-headed spears and challenged all the chieftains of the Argives to fight him man to man in deadly combat.
Argumentative:But when Menelaos dear to Ares marked him coming in the forefront of the multitude with long strides, then even as a lion is glad when he lighteth upon a great carcase, a horned stag, or a wild goat that he hath found, being an hungered; and so he devoureth it amain, even though the fleet hounds and lusty youths set upon him; even thus was Menelaos glad when his eyes beheld godlike Alexandros; for he thought to take vengeance upon the sinner.
Argumentative:So straightway he leap in his armour from his chariot to the ground.
Argumentative:But when godlike Alexandros marked him appear amid the champions, his heart was smitten, and he shrank back into the host of his comrades, avoiding death.
Argumentative:And even as a man that hath seen a serpent in a mountain glade starteth backward and trembling seizeth his feet beneath him, and he retreateth back again, and paleness hath hold of his cheeks, even so did godlike Alexandros for fear of Atreus' son shrink back into the throng of lordly Trojans.
Argumentative:Yea, that were my desire, and it were far better than thus to be our shame and looked at askance of all men.
Argumentative:I ween that the flowing-haired Achaians laugh, deeming that a prince is our champion only because a goodly favour is his; but in his heart is there no strength nor any courage.
Argumentative:And canst thou not indeed abide Menelaos dear to Ares?
Argumentative:Thy lyre will not avail thee nor the gifts of Aphrodite, those thy locks and fair favour, when thou grovellest in the dust.
Argumentative:And godlike Alexandros made answer to him again: "Hector, since in measure thou chidest me and not beyond measure - they heart is ever keen, even as an axe that pierceth a beam at the hand of a man that shapeth a ship's timber with skill, and thereby is the man's blow strengthened; even such is thy heart undaunted in thy breast.
Argumentative:Cast not in my teeth the lovely gifts of golden Aphrodite; not to be flung aside are the gods' glorious gifts that of their own good will they give; for by his desire can no man win them.
Argumentative:And whichsoever shall vanquish and gain the upper hand, let him take all the wealth aright, and the woman, and bear them home.
Argumentative:And let the rest pledge friendship and sure oaths; so may ye dwell in deep-soiled Troy, and let them depart to Argos pasture-land of horses, and Achaia home of fair women."
Argumentative:But the flowing-haired Achaians kept shooting at him, aiming with arrows and casting stones.
Argumentative:He biddeth the other Trojans and all the Achaians to lay down their goodly armour on the bounteous earth, and himself in the midst and Menelaos dear to Ares to fight alone for Helen and all her wealth.
Argumentative:And whichsoever shall vanquish and gain the upper hand, let him take all the wealth aright, and the woman, and bear them home; but let all of us pledge friendship and sure oaths."
Argumentative:And call hither great Priam, that he may pledge the oath himself, seeing he hath sons that are overweening and faithless, lest any by transgression do violence to the oath of Zeus; for young men's hearts are ever lifted up.
Argumentative:But wheresoever an old man entereth in, he looketh both before and after, whereby the best issue shall come for either side."
Argumentative:So spake he, and Achaians and Trojans were glad, deeming that they should have rest from grievous war.
Argumentative:So they refrained their chariots to the ranks, and themselves alighted and doffed their arms.
Argumentative:And Hector sent two heralds to the city will all speed, to bring the lambs, and to call Priam.
Argumentative:Now Iris went with a message to white-armed Helen in the likeness of her husband's sister, the spouse of Antenor's son, even her that lord Helikaon Antenor's son had to wife, Laodike fairest favoured of Priam's daughters.
Argumentative:But Alexandros and Menelaos dear to Ares will fight with their tall spears for thee; and thou wilt be declared the dear wife of him that conquereth."
Argumentative:Forthwith she veiled her face in shining linen, and hastened from her chamber, letting fall a round tear; not unattended, for there followed with her two handmaidens, Aithre daughter of Pittheus and ox-eyed Klymene.
Argumentative:Then came she straightway to the place of the Skaian gates.
Argumentative:And they that were with Priam and Panthoos and Thymoites and Lampos and Klytios and Hiketaon of the stock of Ares, Oukalegon withal and Antenor, twain sages, being elders of the people, sat at the Skaian gates.
Argumentative:These had now ceased from battle for old age, yet were they right good orators, like grasshoppers that in a forest sit upon a tree and utter their lily-like [supposed to mean "delicate" or "tender"] voice; even so sat the elders of the Trojans upon the tower.
Argumentative:I hold thee not to blame; nay, I hold the gods to blame who brought on me the dolorous war of the Achaians - so mayest thou now tell me who is this huge hero, this Achaian warrior so goodly and great.
Argumentative:Of a truth there are others even taller by a head; yet mine eyes never behold a man so beautiful nor so royal; for he is like unto one that is a king."
Argumentative:Yet were not even they so many as are the glancing-eyed Achaians."
Argumentative:His armour lieth upon the bounteous earth, and himself like a bell-wether rangeth the ranks of warriors.
Argumentative:But when he uttered his great voice from his chest, and words like unto the snowflakes of winter, then could no mortal man contend with Odysseus; then marvelled we not thus to behold Odysseus' aspect."
Argumentative:And long-robed Helen, fair among women, answered: "This is huge Aias, bulwark of the Achaians.
Argumentative:And on the other side amid the Cretans standeth Idomeneus like a god, and about him are gathered the captains of the Cretans.
Argumentative:Oft did Menelaos dear to Ares entertain him in our house whene'er he came from Crete.
Argumentative:And now behold I all the other glancing-eyed Achaians, whom well I could discern and tell their names; but two captains of the host can I not see, even Kastor tamer of horses and Polydeukes the skilful boxer, mine own brethren, whom the same mother bare.
Argumentative:Meanwhile were the heralds bearing through the city the holy oath-offerings, two lambs and strong-hearted wine, the fruit of the earth, in a goat-skin bottle.
Argumentative:But Alexandros and Menelaos dear to Ares will fight with their long spears for the lady's sake; and let lady and treasure go with him that shall conquer.
Argumentative:And may we that are left pledge friendship and trusty oaths and dwell in deep-soiled Troy, and they shall depart to Argos pasture-land of horses and Achaia home of fair women."
Argumentative:So said he, and the old man shuddered and base his companions yoke the horses; and they with speed obeyed.
Argumentative:So the two drave the fleet horses through the Skaian gates to the plain.
Argumentative:And when they had come even to the Trojans and Achaians, they went down from the chariots upon the bounteous earth, and marched into the midst of Trojans and Achaians.
Argumentative:And Atreides put forth his hand and drew his knife that hung ever beside his sword's great sheath, and cut the hair from off the lambs' heads; and then the heralds portioned it among the chief of the Trojans and Achaians.
Argumentative:Then in their midst Atreus' son lifted up his hands and prayed aloud: "Father Zeus, that rulest from Ida, most glorious, most great, and thou Sun that seest all things and hearest all things, and ye Rivers and thou Earth, and ye that in the underworld punish men outworn, whosoever sweareth falsely; be ye witnesses, and watch over the faithful oath.
Argumentative:But if golden-haired Menelaos slay Alexandros, then let the Trojans give back Helen and all her possessions and pay the Argives the recompense that is seemly, such as shall live among men that shall be hereafter.
Argumentative:So said he, and cut the lambs' throats with the pitiless knife.
Argumentative:Them he laid gasping upon the ground, failing of breath, for the knife had taken their strength from them; and next they drew the wine from the bowl into the cups, and poured it forth and prayed to the gods that live for ever.
Argumentative:And thus would say many an one of Achaians and Trojans: "Zeus most glorious, most great, and all ye immortal gods, which folk soe'er be first to sin against the oaths, may their brains be so poured forth upon the earth even as this wine, theirs and their children's; and let their wives be made subject unto strangers."
Argumentative:So spake they, but the son of Kronos vouchsafed not yet fulfilment.
Argumentative:I verily will return back to windy Ilios, seeing that I can in no wise bear to behold with mine eyes my dear son fighting with Menelaos dear to Ares.
Argumentative:Then the people sat them down by ranks where each man's high-stepping horses and inwrought armour lay.
Argumentative:And upon his shoulders goodly Alexandros donned his beauteous armour, even he that was lord to Helen of the lovely hair.
Argumentative:First upon his legs set he his greaves, beautiful, fastened with silver ankle-clasps; next upon his breast he donned the corslet of his brother Lykaon, and fitted it upon himself.
Argumentative:And over his shoulders cast he his silver-studded sword of bronze, and then a shield great and sturdy.
Argumentative:And in like wise warlike Menelaos donned his armour.
Argumentative:So when they had armed themselves on either side in the throng, they strode between Trojans and Achaians, fierce of aspect, and wonder came on them that beheld, both on the Trojans tamers of horses and on the well-greaved Achaians.
Argumentative:Then took they their stand near together in the measured space, brandishing their spears in wrath each against other.
Argumentative:First Alexandros hurled his far shadowing spear, and smote on Atreides' round shield; but the bronze brake not through, for its point was turned in the stout shield.
Argumentative:Next Menelaos son of Atreus lifted up his hand to cast, and made prayer to father Zeus: "King Zeus, grant me revenge on him that was first to do me wrong, even on goodly Alexandros, and subdue thou him at my hands; so that many an one of men that shall be hereafter may shudder to wrong his host that hath shown him kindness."
Argumentative:So said he, and poised his far-shadowing spear, and hurled, and smote on the round shield of the son of Priam.
Argumentative:Through the bright shield went the ponderous spear and through the inwrought breastplate it pressed on; and straight beside his flank the spear rent the tunic, but he swerved and escaped black death.
Argumentative:Now would Menelaos have dragged him away and won glory unspeakable, but that Zeus' daughter Aphrodite was swift to mark, and tore asunder for him the strap of slaughtered ox's hide; so the helmet came away empty in his stalwart hand.
Argumentative:Thereat Menelaos cast it with a swing toward the well-greaved Achaians, and his trusty comrades took it up; and himself sprang back again eager to slay him with spear of bronze.
Argumentative:Even in her likeness fair Aphrodite spake: "Come hither; Alexandros summoneth thee to go homeward.
Argumentative:Therefore thou comest hither with guileful intent.
Argumentative:Now when they were come to the beautiful house of Alexandros the handmaidens turned straightway to their tasks, and the fair lady went to the high-roofed chamber; and laughter-loving Aphrodite took for her a chair and brought it, even she the goddess, and set it before the face of Paris.
Argumentative:Verily it was once thy boast that thou wast a better man than Menelaos dear to Ares, in the might of thine arm and thy spear.
Argumentative:But go now, challenge Menelaos, dear to Ares to fight thee again face to face.
Argumentative:For now indeed hath Menelaos vanquished me with Athene's aid, but another day may I do so unto him; for we too have gods with us.
Argumentative:Thus laid they them upon their fretted couch; but Atreides the while strode through the host like to a wild beast, if anywhere he might set eyes on godlike Alexandros.
Argumentative:But none of the Trojans or their famed allies could discover Alexandros to Menelaos dear to Ares.
Argumentative:Yet surely did they in no wise hide him for kindliness, could any have seen him; for he was hated of all even as black death.
Argumentative:So Agamemnon king of men spake among them there: "Hearken to me, Trojans and Dardanians and allies.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC/
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00014	
Argumentative:For thus will I declare, and even so shall the fulfilment be; I will maim their fleet horses in the chariot, and them will I hurl out from the car, and will break in pieces the chariot; neither within the courses of ten years shall they heal them of the wounds the thunderbolt shall tear; that the bright-eyed one may know the end when she striveth against her father.
Argumentative:Homer - The Iliad - Ancinet-Mythology.com Homer - The Iliad Book VIII How Zeus bethought him of his promise to avenge Achilles' wrong on Agamemnon; and therefore bade the gods refrain from war, and gave victory to the Trojans.
Argumentative:One thing let none essay, be it goddess or be it god, to wit, to thwart my saying; approve ye it all together, that with all speed I may accomplish these things.
Argumentative:Whomsoever I shall perceive minded to go, apart from the gods, to succour Trojans or Danaans, chastened in no seemly wise shall he return to Olympus, or I will take and cast him into misty Tartaros, right far away, where is the deepest gulf beneath the earth; there are the gate of iron and threshold of bronze, as far beneath Hades as heaven is high above the earth: then shall he know how far I am mightiest of all gods.
Argumentative:Thereafter would I bind the rope about a pinnacle of Olympus, and so should all those things be hung in air.
Argumentative:So saying he let harness to his chariot his bronze-shod horses, fleet of foot, with flowing manes of gold; and himself clad him with gold upon his flesh, and grasped the whip of gold, well wrought, and mounted upon his car, and lashed the horses to start them; they nothing loth sped on between earth and starry heaven.
Argumentative:So fared he to many-fountained Ida, mother of wild beasts, even unto Gargaros, where is his demesne and fragrant altar.
Argumentative:Likewise the Trojans on their side armed them throughout the town - a smaller host, yet for all that were they eager to fight in battle, of forceful need, for their children's sake and their wives'.
Argumentative:So when they were met together and come unto one spot, then clashed they targe and spear and fury of bronze-clad warrior; the bossed shields pressed each on each, and mighty din arose.
Argumentative:Then had Idomeneus no heart to stand, neither Agamemnon, neither stood the twain Aiantes, men of Ares' company.
Argumentative:Only Nestor of Gerenia stood his ground, he the Warden of the Achaians; neither he of purpose, but his horse was fordone, which noble Alexandros, beauteous-haired Helen's lord, had smitten with an arrow upon the top of the crest where the foremost hairs of horses grow upon the skull; and there is the most deadly spot.
Argumentative:While the old man leapt forth and with his sword began to hew the traces, came Hector's fleet horses through the tumult, bearing a bold charioteer, even Hecktor.
Argumentative:Beware lest as thou fleest one plant a spear between thy shoulders.
Argumentative:Then the two squires tended Nestor's horses, even Sthenelos the valiant and kindly Eurymedon: and the other twain both mounted upon Diomedes' car.
Argumentative:Then Tydeus' son hurled at him as he charged straight upon them: him missed he, but his squire that drave his chariot, Eniopeus, high-hearted Thebaios' son, even him as he held the reins, he smote upon the breast beside the nipple.
Argumentative:Then sore grief encompassed Hector's soul for sake of his charioteer.
Argumentative:Then had destruction come and deeds beyond remedy been wrought, and so had they been penned in Ilios like lambs, had not the father of gods and men been swift to mark.
Argumentative:And the shining reins dropped from Nestor's hands, and he was afraid at heart and spake to Diomedes: "Come now Tydeides, turn back thy whole-hooved horses to flight: seest thou not that victory from Zeus attendeth not on thee?
Argumentative:Now doth Kronos' son vouchsafe glory to this Hector, for the day; hereafter shall he grant it us likewise, if he will.
Argumentative:A man may not at all ward off the will of Zeus, not though one be very valiant; he verily is mightier far."
Argumentative:And over him shouted loudly great Hector of the glancing helm: "Tydeides, the fleet-horsed Danaans were wont to honour thee with the highest place, and meats, and cups brimful, but now will they disdain thee; thou art after all no better than a woman.
Argumentative:Begone, poor puppet; not for my flinching shalt thou climb on our towers, neither carry our wives away upon thy ships; ere that will I deal thee thy fate."
Argumentative:Thrice doubted he in heart and soul, and thrice from Ida's mountains thundered Zeus the lord of counsel, and gave to the Trojans a sign, the turning of the course of battle.
Argumentative:I perceive that of good will Kronion vouchsafest me victory and great glory, and to the Danaans destruction.
Argumentative:Fools, that devised these walls weak and of none account; they shall not withhold our fury, and lightly shall our steeds overleap the delved foss.
Argumentative:So spake he and shouted to his steeds, and said: "Xanthos, and thou Podargos, and Aithon and goodly Lampos, now pay me back your tending, even the abundance that Andromache, great-hearted Eetion's daughter, set before you of honey-hearted wheat, and mingled wine to drink at the heart's bidding.
Argumentative:Pursue ye now and haste, that we may seize Nestor's shield, the fame whereof now reacheth unto heaven, how that it is of gold throughout, armrods and all; and may seize moreover from horse-taming Diomedes' shoulders his richly dight breastplate that Hephaistos wrought cunningly.
Argumentative:And now had he burned the trim ships with blazing fire, but that queen Hera put it in Agamemnon's heart himself to bestir him and swiftly arouse the Achaians.
Argumentative:So he went his way along the huts and ships of the Achaians, holding a great cloak of purple in his stalwart hand, and stood by Odysseus' black ship of mighty burden, that was in the midst, so that a voice could be heard to either end.
Argumentative:Then shouted he in a piercing voice, and called to the Danaans aloud: "Fie upon you, Argives, ye sorry things of shame, so brave in semblance!
Argumentative:Whither are gone our boastings when we said that we were bravest, the boasts ye uttered vaingloriously when in Lemnos, as ye ate your fill of flesh of tall-horned oxen and drank goblets crowned with wine, and said that every man should stand in war to face fivescore yea tenscore Trojans?
Argumentative:yet now can we not match one, even this Hector that anon will burn our ships with flame of fire.
Argumentative:O Father Zeus, didst ever thou blind with such a blindness any mighty king, and rob him of great glory?
Argumentative:Nay, Zeus, this hope fulfil thou me; suffer that we ourselves at least flee and escape, neither suffer that the Achaians be thus vanquished of the Trojans."
Argumentative:Now could no man of the Danaans, for all they were very many, boast that he before Tydeus' son had guided his fleet horses forth, and driven them across the trench and fought man to man; first by far was Tydeides to slay a warrior of the Trojans in full array, even Agelaos son of Phradmon.
Argumentative:Now he had turned his steeds to flee; but as he wheeled the other plunged the spear into his back between his shoulders, and drave it through his breast.
Argumentative:And after him came Atreus' sons, even Agamemnon and Menelaos, and after them the Aiantes clothed upon with impetuous valour, and after them Idomeneus and Idomeneus' brother in arms Meriones, peer of Enyalios slayer of men, and after them Eurypylos, Euaimon's glorious son.
Argumentative:And so Aias would stealthily withdraw the shield, and Teukros would spy his chance; and when he had shot and smitten one in the throng, then fell such an one and gave up the ghost, and Teukros would return, and as a child beneath his mother, so gat he him to Aias; who hid him with the shining shield.
Argumentative:Verily with such strength as is in me forbear I not, but ever since we drave them towards Ilios I watch with my bow to slay the foemen.
Argumentative:Then sore grief encompassed Hector's soul for his charioteer's sake; yet left he him, though he sorrowed for his comrade, and bade Kebriones his own brother, being hard by, take the chariot reins; and he heard and disregarded not.
Argumentative:Now Teukros had plucked forth from his quiver a keen arrow, and laid it on the string; but even as he drew it back, Hector of the glancing helm smote him with the jagged stone, as he aimed eagerly against him, even beside his shoulder, where the collar-bone fenceth off neck and breast, and where is the most deadly spot; and he brake the bowstring, and his hand from the wrist grew numb, and he stayed fallen upon his knee, and his bow dropped from his hand.
Argumentative:But Aias disregarded not his brother's fall, but ran and strode across him and hid him with his shield.
Argumentative:Then two trusty comrades bent down to him, even Mekisteus son of Echios and goodly Alastor, and bare him, groaning sorely, to the hollow ships.
Argumentative:So they drove the Achaians straight toward the deep foss, and amid the foremost went Hector exulting in his strength.
Argumentative:But Hector wheeled round his beauteous-maned steeds this way and that, and his eyes were as the eyes of Gorgon or Ares bane of mortals.
Argumentative:Now at the sight of them the white-armed goddess Hera had compassion, and anon spake winged words to Athene: "Out on it, thou child of aegis-bearing Zeus, shall not we twain any more take thought for the Danaans that perish, if only for this last time?
Argumentative:Now will they fill up the measure of evil destiny and perish by one man's onslaught; seeing that he is furious now beyond endurance, this Hector son of Priam, and verily hath wrought many a deed of ill."
Argumentative:And the bright-eyed goddess Athene made answer to her, "Yea in good sooth, may this fellow yield up strength and life, and perish at the Argives' hands in his native land; only mine own sire is furious, with no good intent, headstrong, ever sinful, the foiler of my purposes.
Argumentative:Surely shall many a Trojan likewise glut dogs and birds with fat and flesh, fallen dead at the ships of the Achaians."
Argumentative:For him also the noble Shaker of Earth unyoked the steeds, and set the car upon the stand, and spread a cloth thereover; and far-seeing Zeus himself sate upon his golden throne, and beneath his feet great Olympus quaked.
Argumentative:Surely ye are not wearied of making havoc in glorious battle of the Trojans, for whom ye cherish bitter hate!
Argumentative:Howsoever, seeing that my might is so great and my hands invincible, all the gods that are in Olympus could not turn me: and for you twain, trembling erst gat hold upon your bright limbs ere that ye beheld war and war's fell deeds.
Argumentative:Well know we, even we, that thy might is no wise puny; yet still have we pity for the Danaan spearmen, that now shall perish and fill up the measure of grievous fate."
Argumentative:And Zeus the cloud-gatherer answered and said: "At morn shalt thou behold most mighty Kronion, if thou wilt have it so, O Hera, ox-eyed queen, making yet more havoc of the vast army of Argive spearmen; for headlong Hector shall not refrain from battle till that Peleus' son fleet of foot have arisen beside the ships, that day when these shall fight amid the sterns in most grievous stress, around Patroklos fallen.
Argumentative:And the sun's bright light dropped into Ocean, drawing black night across Earth the grain-giver.
Argumentative:So let us now yield to black night, and make our supper ready; unyoke ye from the chariots your fair-maned horses, and set fodder beside them.
Argumentative:And let the heralds dear to Zeus proclaim throughout the city that young maidens and old men of hoary heads camp round the city on the battlements builded of the gods; and let the women folk burn a great fire each in her hall; and let there be a sure watch set, lest an ambush enter the city when the host is absent.
Argumentative:Howbeit for the night will we guard our own selves, and at morn by daybreak, arrayed in our armour, let us awake keen battle at the hollow ships.
Argumentative:I will know whether Tydeus' son stalwart Diomedes shall thrust me from the ships back to the wall, or I shall lay him low with my spear and bear away his gory spoils.
Argumentative:To-morrow shall he prove his valour, whether he can abide the onslaught of my spear.
Argumentative:And they loosed their sweating steeds from the yoke, and tethered them with thongs, each man beside his chariot; and from the city they brought kine and goodly sheep with speed, and provided them with honey-hearted wine and corn from their houses, and gathered much wood withal.
Argumentative:But these with high hopes sate them all night along the highways of the battle, and their watchfires burned in multitude.
Argumentative:Even as when in heaven the stars about the bright moon shine clear to see, when the air is windless, and all the peaks appear and the tall headlands and glades, and from heaven breaketh open the infinite air, and all stars are seen, and the shepherd's heart is glad; even in like multitude between the ships and the streams of Xanthos appeared the watchfires that the Trojans kindled in front of Ilios.
Argumentative:A thousand fires burned in the plain and by the side of each sate fifty in the gleam of blazing fire.
Argumentative:And the horses champed white barley and spelt, and standing by their chariots waited for the throned Dawn.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00016	
Argumentative:The Odyssey: Book IV - Ancinet-Mythology.com The Odyssey Book IV And now proud Sparta with their wheels resounds, Sparta whose walls a range of hills surrounds; At the fair dome the rapid labour ends; Where sate Atrides 'midst his bridal friends, With double vows invoking Hymen's power, To bless his son's and daughter's nuptial hour.
Argumentative:That day, to great Achilles son resign'd, Hermione, the fairest of her kind, Was sent to crown the long-protracted joy, Espoused before the final doom of Troy; With steeds and gilded cars, a gorgeous train Attend the nymphs to Phthia's distant reign.
Argumentative:Meanwhile at home, to Megapentha's bed The virgin choir Alector's daughter led.
Argumentative:Brave Megapenthas From a stolen amour To great Atrides' age his handmaid bore; To Helen's bed the gods alone assign Hermione, to extend the regal line; On whom a radiant pomp oh Graces wait, Resembling Venus in attractive state.
Argumentative:While this gay friendly troop the king surround, With festival and mirth the roofs resound; A bard amid the joyous circle sings High airs attemper'd to the vocal strings; Whilst warbling to the varied strain, advance Two sprightly youths to form the bounding dance, 'Twas then, that issuing through the palace gate, The splendid car roll'd slow in regal state: On the bright eminence young Nestor shone, And fast beside him great Ulysses' son; Grave Eteoneous saw the pomp appear, And speeding, thus address'd the royal ear; "Two youths approach, whose semblant features prove Their blood devolving from the source of Jove Is due reception deign'd, or must they bend Their doubtful course to seek a distant friend?"
Argumentative:(with a sigh the king replies,) Too long, misjudging, have I thought thee wise But sure relentless folly steals thy breast, Obdurate to reject the stranger-guest; To those dear hospitable rites a foe, Which in my wanderings oft relieved my woe; Fed by the bounty of another's board, Till pitying Jove my native realm restored-- Straight be the coursers from the car released, Conduct the youths to grace the genial feast."
Argumentative:From room to room their eager view they bend Thence to the bath, a beauteous pile, descend; Where a bright damsel train attends the guests With liquid odours, and embroider'd vests.
Argumentative:When thus the king, with hospitable port; "Accept this welcome to the Spartan court: The waste of nature let the feast repair, Then your high lineage and your names declare; Say from what sceptred ancestry ye claim, Recorded eminent in deathless fame, For vulgar parents cannot stamp their race With signatures of such majestic grace."
Argumentative:Ceasing, benevolent he straight assigns The royal portion of the choicest chines To each accepted friend; with grateful haste They share the honours of the rich repast.
Argumentative:Sufficed, soft whispering thus to Nestor's son, His head reclined, young Ithacus begun: "View'st thou unmoved, O ever-honour'd most!
Argumentative:These prodigies of art, and wondrous cost!
Argumentative:Above, beneath, around the palace shines The sunless treasure of exhausted mines; The spoils of elephants the roofs inlay, And studded amber darts the golden ray; Such, and not nobler, in the realms above My wonder dictates is the dome of Jove."
Argumentative:The monarch took the word, and grave replied: "Presumptuous are the vaunts, and vain the pride Of man, who dares in pomp with Jove contest, Unchanged, immortal, and supremely blest!
Argumentative:With all my affluence, when my woes are weigh'd, Envy will own the purchase dearly paid.
Argumentative:Next Aethiopia's utmost bound explore, And the parch'd borders of the Arabian shore; Then warp my voyage on the southern gales, O'er the warm Lybian wave to spread my sails; That happy clime, where each revolving year The teeming ewes a triple offspring bear; And two fair crescents of translucent horn The brows of all their young increase adorn: The shepherd swains, with sure abundance blest, On the fat flock and rural dainties feast; Nor want of herbage makes the dairy fail, But every season fills the foaming pail.
Argumentative:had the gods so large a boon denied And life, the just equivalent supplied To those brave warriors, who, with glory fired Far from their country, in my cause expired!
Argumentative:Still in short intervals of pleasing woe.
Argumentative:Indulge the tribute of a grateful tear.
Argumentative:Ulysses--deeper than the rest That sad idea wounds my anxious breast!
Argumentative:My heart bleeds fresh with agonizing pain; The bowl and tasteful viands tempt in vain; Nor sleep's soft power can close my streaming eyes, When imaged to my soul his sorrows rise.
Argumentative:No peril in my cause he ceased to prove, His labours equall'd only by my love: And both alike to bitter fortune born, For him to suffer, and for me to mourn!
Argumentative:While thus pathetic to the prince he spoke, From the brave youth the streaming passion broke; Studious to veil the grief, in vain repress'd, His face he shrouded with his purple vest.
Argumentative:The conscious monarch pierced the coy disguise, And view'd his filial love with vast surprise: Dubious to press the tender theme, or wait To hear the youth inquire his father's fate.
Argumentative:In this suspense bright Helen graced the room; Before her breathed a gale of rich perfume.
Argumentative:Alcandra, consort of his high command, A golden distaff gave to Helen's hand; And that rich vase, with living sculpture wrought, Which heap'd with wool the beauteous Phylo brought The silken fleece, impurpled for the loom, Rivall'd the hyacinth in vernal bloom.
Argumentative:The sovereign seat then Jove born Helen press'd, And pleasing thus her sceptred lord address'd: "Who grace our palace now, that friendly pair, Speak they their lineage, or their names declare?
Argumentative:the lovely boy, Who bless'd Ulysses with a father's joy, What time the Greeks combined their social arms, To avenge the stain of my ill-fated charms!"
Argumentative:"Just is thy thought, (the king assenting cries,) Methinks Ulysses strikes my wondering eyes; Full shines the father in the filial frame, His port, his features, and his shape the same; Such quick regards his sparkling eyes bestow; Such wavy ringlets o'er his shoulders flow And when he heard the long disastrous store Of cares, which in my cause Ulysses bore; Dismay'd, heart-wounded with paternal woes, Above restraint the tide of sorrow rose; Cautious to let the gushing grief appear, His purple garment veil'd the falling tear."
Argumentative:Of that heroic sire the youth is sprung, But modest awe hath chain'd his timorous tongue.
Argumentative:with pleased attention heard, Is like the dictates of a god revered.
Argumentative:With him, at Nestor's high command, I came, Whose age I honour with a parent's name.
Argumentative:By adverse destiny constrained to sue For counsel and redress, he sues to you Whatever ill the friendless orphan bears, Bereaved of parents in his infant years, Still must the wrong'd Telemachus sustain, If, hopeful of your aid, he hopes in vain; Affianced in your friendly power alone, The youth would vindicate the vacant throne."
Argumentative:"Is Sparta blest, and these desiring eyes View my friend's son?
Argumentative:I, to confirm the mutual joys we shared, For his abode a capital prepared; Argos, the seat of sovereign rule, I chose; Fair in the plan the future palace rose, Where my Ulysses and his race might reign, And portion to his tribes the wide domain, To them my vassals had resign'd a soil, With teeming plenty to reward their toil.
Argumentative:There with commutual zeal we both had strove In acts of dear benevolence and love: Brothers in peace, not rivals in command, And death alone dissolved the friendly band!
Argumentative:Some envious power the blissful scene destroys; Vanish'd are all the visionary joys; The soul of friendship to my hope is lost, Fated to wander from his natal coast!"
Argumentative:the living can bestow; O'er the congenial dust enjoin'd to shear The graceful curl, and drop the tender tear.
Argumentative:Then, mingling in the mournful pomp with you, I'll pay my brother's ghost a warrior's due, And mourn the brave Antilochus, a name Not unrecorded in the rolls of fame; With strength and speed superior form'd, in fight To face the foe, or intercept his flight; Too early snatch'd by fate ere known to me!
Argumentative:Whene'er his influence Jove vouchsafes to shower, To bless the natal and the nuptial hour; From the great sire transmissive to the race, The boon devolving gives distinguish'd grace.
Argumentative:Such, happy Nestor!
Argumentative:To move thy suit, Telemachus, delay, Till heaven's revolving lamp restores the day."
Argumentative:He said, Asphalion swift the laver brings; Alternate, all partake the grateful springs; Then from the rites of purity repair, And with keen gust the savoury viands share.
Argumentative:Meantime, with genial joy to warm the soul, Bright Helen mix'd a mirth inspiring bowl; Temper'd with drugs of sovereign use, to assuage The boiling bosom of tumultuous rage; To clear the cloudy front of wrinkled Care, And dry the tearful sluices of Despair; Charm'd with that virtuous draught, the exalted mind All sense of woe delivers to the wind.
Argumentative:Or a loved brother groan'd his life away.
Argumentative:Or darling son, oppress'd by ruffian force, Fell breathless at his feet, a mangled corse; From morn to eve, impassive and serene, The man entranced would view the dreadful scene These drugs, so friendly to the joys of life.
Argumentative:Bright Helen learn'd from Thone's imperial wife; Who sway'd the sceptre, where prolific Nile With various simples clothes the fatten'd soil.
Argumentative:With wholesome herbage mix'd, the direful bane Of vegetable venom taints the plain; From Paeon sprung, their patron-god imparts To all the Pharian race his healing arts.
Argumentative:The beverage now prepared to inspire the feast, The circle thus the beauteous queen addressed: "Throned in omnipotence, supremest Jove Tempers the fates of human race above; By the firm sanction of his sovereign will, Alternate are decreed our good and ill.
Argumentative:"Seam'd o'er with wounds, which his own sabre gave, In the vile habit of a village slave, The foe deceived, he pass'd the tented plain, In Troy to mingle with the hostile train.
Argumentative:Exploring then the secrets of the state, He learn'd what best might urge the Dardan fate; And, safe returning to the Grecian host, Sent many a shade to Pluto's dreary coast.
Argumentative:Loud grief resounded through the towers of Troy, But my pleased bosom glow'd with secret joy: For then, with dire remorse and conscious shame I view'd the effects of that disastrous flame.
Argumentative:Some demon, anxious for the Trojan doom, Urged you with great Deiphobus to come, To explore the fraud; with guile opposed to guile.
Argumentative:Slow-pacing thrice around the insidious pile, Each noted leader's name you thrice invoke, Your accent varying as their spouses spoke!
Argumentative:The pleasing sounds each latent warrior warm'd, But most Tydides' and coy heart alarm'd: To quit the steed we both impatient press Threatening to answer from the dark recess.
Argumentative:But now let sleep the painful waste repair Of sad reflection and corroding care."
Argumentative:He ceased; the menial fair that round her wait, At Helen's beck prepare the room of state; Beneath an ample portico they spread The downy fleece to form the slumberous bed; And o'er soft palls of purple grain unfold Rich tapestry, stiff with interwoven gold: Then, through the illumined dome, to balmy rest The obsequious herald guides each princely guest; While to his regal bower the king ascends, And beauteous Helen on her lord attends.
Argumentative:Soon as the morn, in orient purple dress'd, Unbarr'd the portal of the roseate east, The monarch rose; magnificent to view, The imperial mantle o'er his vest he threw; The glittering zone athwart his shoulders cast, A starry falchion low-depending graced; Clasp'd on his feet the embroidered sandals shine; And forth he moves, majestic and divine, Instant to young Telemachus he press'd; And thus benevolent his speech addressed: "Say, royal youth, sincere of soul report Whit cause hath led you to the Spartan court?
Argumentative:relate The mournful series of my father's fate: Each known disaster of the man disclose, Born by his mother to a world of woes!
Argumentative:Recite them; nor in erring pity fear To wound with storied grief the filial ear.
Argumentative:If e'er Ulysses, to reclaim your right, Avow'd his zeal in council or in fight, If Phrygian camps the friendly toils attest, To the sire's merit give the son's request."
Argumentative:would a soft, inglorious, dastard train An absent hero's nuptial joys profane!
Argumentative:So with her young, amid the woodland shades, A timorous hind the lion's court invades, Leaves in the fatal lair the tender fawns, Climbs the green cliff, or feeds the flowery lawns: Meantime return'd, with dire remorseless sway, The monarch-savage rends the trembling prey.
Argumentative:With equal fury, and with equal fame, Ulysses soon shall reassert his claim.
Argumentative:O Jove supreme, whom gods and men revere!
Argumentative:to whom 'tis given to gild the sphere!
Argumentative:With power congenial join'd, propitious aid The chief adopted by the martial maid!
Argumentative:Such to our wish the warrior soon restore, As when contending on the Lesbian shore His prowess Philomelidies confess'd, And loud-acclaiming Greeks the victor bless'd; Then soon the invaders of his bed and throne Their love presumptous shail with life atone.
Argumentative:For this the gods each favouring gale restrain Jealous, to see their high behests obey'd; Severe, if men the eternal rights evade.
Argumentative:There, anchor'd vessels safe in harbour lie, Whilst limpid springs the failing cask supply.
Argumentative:' "Struck with the loud reproach, I straight reply: 'Whate'er thy title in thy native sky, A goddess sure!
Argumentative:Watch with insidious care his known abode; There fast in chains constrain the various god; Who bound, obedient to superior force, Unerring will prescribe your destined course.
Argumentative:If, studious on your realms, you then demand Their state, since last you left your natal land, Instant the god obsequious will disclose Bright tracts of glory or a cloud of woes.
Argumentative:Emerging from the wave, The Phocas swift surround his rocky cave, Frequent and full; the consecrated train Of her, whose azure trident awes the main; There wallowing warm, the enormous herd exhales An oily steam, and taints the noontide gales.
Argumentative:To that recess, commodious for surprise, When purple light shall next suffuse the skies, With me repair; and from thy warrior-band Three chosen chiefs of dauntless soul commamd; Let their auxiliar force befriend the toil; For strong the god, and perfected in guile.
Argumentative:Strech'd on the shelly shore, he first surveys The flouncing herd ascending from the seas; Their numher summ'd, reposed in sleep profound The scaly charge their guardian god surround; So with his battening flocks the careful swain Abides pavilion'd on the grassy plain.
Argumentative:With powers united, obstinately bold, Invade him, couch'd amid the scaly fold; Instant he wears, elusive of the rape, The mimic force of every savage shape; Or glides with liquid lapse a murmuring stream, Or, wrapp'd in flame, he glows at every limb.
Argumentative:Yet, still retentive, with redoubled might, Through each vain passive form constrain his flight But when, his native shape renamed, he stands Patient of conquest, and your cause demands; The cause that urged the bold attempt declare, And soothe the vanquish'd with a victor's prayer.
Argumentative:The bands releas'd, implore the seer to say What godhead interdicts the watery way.
Argumentative:Who, straight propitious, in prophetic strain Will teach you to repass the unmeasured main.
Argumentative:Fast by the deep, Along the tented shore, in balmy sleep, Our cares were lost.
Argumentative:the prophet's piercing eye to shun; New from the corse, the scaly frands diffuse Unsavoury stench of oil, and brackish ooze; But the bright sea-maid's gentle power implored, With nectar'd drops the sickening sense restored.
Argumentative:At last, sublime, his stately growth he rears A tree, and well-dissembled foliage wears.
Argumentative:' I thus: 'O thou, whose certain eye foresees The fix'd event of fate's remote decrees; After long woes, and various toil endured, Still on this desert isle my fleet is moor'd, Unfriended of the gales.
Argumentative:All-knowing, say, What godhead interdicts the watery way?
Argumentative:What vows repentant will the power appease, To speed a prosperous voyage o'er the seas.
Argumentative:Once more the Nile, who from the secret source Of Jove's high seat descends with sweepy force, Must view his billows white beneath thy oar, And altars blaze along his sanguine shore.
Argumentative:Then will the gods with holy pomp adored, To thy long vows a safe return accord.
Argumentative:Must I the warriors weep, Whelm'd in the bottom of the monstrous deep?
Argumentative:"'Press not too far,' replied the god: 'but cease To know what, known, will violate thy peace; Too curious of their doom!
Argumentative:with friendly woe Thy breast will heave, and tears eternal flow.
Argumentative:the rest, a lamentable train!
Argumentative:Range the dark bounds of Pluto's dreary reign.
Argumentative:Two, foremost in the roll of Mars renown'd, Whose arms with conquest in thy cause were crown'd, Fell by disastrous fate: by tempests toss'd, A third lives wretched on a distant coast.
Argumentative:"By Neptune rescued from Minerva's hate, On Gyrae, safe Oilean Ajax sate, His ship o'erwhelm'd; but, frowning on the floods, Impious he roar'd defiance to the gods; To his own prowess all the glory gave: The power defrauding who vouchsafed to save.
Argumentative:"By Juno's guardian aid, the watery vast, Secure of storms, your royal brother pass'd, Till, coasting nigh the cape where Malen shrouds Her spiry cliffs amid surrounding clouds, A whirling gust tumultuous from the shore Across the deep his labouring vessel bore.
Argumentative:In an ill-fated hour the coast he gain'd, Where late in regal pomp Thyestes reigned; But, when his hoary honours bow'd to fate, Aegysthus govern'd in paternal state, The surges now subside, the tempest ends; From his tall ship the king of men descends; There fondly thinks the gods conclude his toil: Far from his own domain salutes the soil; With rapture oft the urge of Greece reviews, And the dear turf with tears of joy bedews.
Argumentative:Him, thus exulting on the distant stand, A spy distinguish'd from his airy stand; To bribe whose vigilance, Aegysthus told A mighty sum of ill-persuading gold: There watch'd this guardian of his guilty fear, Till the twelfth moon had wheel'd her pale career; And now, admonish'd by his eye, to court With terror wing'd conveys the dread report.
Argumentative:Of deathful arts expert, his lord employs The ministers of blood in dark surprise; And twenty youths, in radiant mail incased, Close amhush'd nigh the spacious hall he placed.
Argumentative:Then bids prepare the hospitable treat: Vain shows of love to veil his felon hate!
Argumentative:To grace the victor's welcome from the wars, A train of coursers and triumphal cars Magnificent he leads: the royal guest, Thoughtless of ill, accepts the fraudful feast.
Argumentative:So, whilst he feeds luxurious in the stall, The sovereign of the herd is doomed to fall, The partners of his fame and toils at Troy, Around their lord, a mighty ruin, lie: Mix'd with the brave, the base invaders bleed; Aegysthus sole survives to boast the deed."
Argumentative:But when, superior to the rage of woe, I stood restored and tears had ceased to flow, Lenient of grief the pitying god began: 'Forget the brother, and resume the man.
Argumentative:To Fate's supreme dispose the dead resign, That care be Fate's, a speedy passage thine Still lives the wretch who wrought the death deplored, But lives a victim for thy vengeful sword; Unless with filial rage Orestes glow, And swift prevent the meditated blow: You timely will return a welcome guest, With him to share the sad funereal feast."
Argumentative:view'd, When streaming grief his faded cheek bedow'd.
Argumentative:But vain his prayer, his arts are vain, to move The enamour'd goddess, or elude her love: His vessel sunk, and dear companions lost, He lives reluctant on a foreign coast.
Argumentative:This grace peculiar will the gods afford To thee, the son of Jove, and beauteous Helen's lord.
Argumentative:' "He ceased, and plugning in the vast profound, Beneath the god and whirling billows bound.
Argumentative:Soon as the morn reveals the roseate east, With sails we wing the masts, our anchors weigh, Unmoor the fleet, and rush into the sea.
Argumentative:Ranged on the banks, beneath our equal oars White curl the waves, and the vex'd ocean roars Then, steering backward from the Pharian isle, We gain the stream of Jove-descended Nile; There quit the ships, and on the destined shore With ritual hecatombs the gods adore; Their wrath atoned, to Agamemnon's name A cenotaph I raise of deathless fame.
Argumentative:These rites to piety and grief discharged, The friendly gods a springing gale enlarged; The fleet swift tilting o'er the surges flew, Till Grecian cliffs appear'd a blissful view!
Argumentative:His hand the king with tender passion press'd, And, smiling, thus the royal youth address'd: "O early worth!
Argumentative:a soul so wise, and young, Proclaims you from the sage Ulysses sprung.
Argumentative:Selected from my stores, of matchless price, An urn shall recompense your prudent choice; By Vulcan's art, the verge with gold enchased.
Argumentative:Thus they alternate; while, with artful care, The menial train the regal feast prepare.
Argumentative:The firstlings of the flock are doom'd to die: Rich fragrant wines the cheering bowl supply; A female band the gift of Ceres bring; And the gilt roofs with genial triumph ring.
Argumentative:Unknowing of the course to Pyle design'd, A sudden horror seized on either mind; The prince in rural bower they fondly thought, Numbering his flocks and herds, not far remote.
Argumentative:With him, the peerage next in power to you; And Mentor, captain of the lordly crew, Or some celestial in his reverend form, Safe from the secret rock and adverse storm, Pilot's the course; for when the glimmerering ray Of yester dawn disclosed the tender day, Mentor himself I saw, and much admired," Then ceased the youth, and from the court retired.
Argumentative:Rage sparkling in his eyes, and burning in his breast "O shame to manhood!
Argumentative:shall one daring boy The scheme of all our happiness destroy?
Argumentative:Fly unperceived, seducing half the flower Of nobles, and invite a foreign power?
Argumentative:The ponderous engine raised to crush us all, Recoiling, on his head is sure to fall.
Argumentative:Instant prepare me, on the neighbouring strand, With twenty chosen mates a vessel mann'd; For ambush'd close beneath the Samian shore His ship returning shall my spies explore; He soon his rashness shall with life atone, Seek for his father's fate, but find his own."
Argumentative:With vast applause the sentence all approve; Then rise, and to the feastful hall remove; Swift to the queen the herald Medon ran, Who heard the consult of the dire divan: Before her dome the royal matron stands, And thus the message of his haste demands; "What will the suitors?
Argumentative:Heave
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00018	
Argumentative:As by some artist, to whom Vulcan gives His skill divine, a breathing statue lives; By Pallas taught, he frames the wondrous mould, And o'er the silver pours the fusile gold So Pallas his heroic frame improves With heavenly bloom, and like a god he moves.
Argumentative:The Odyssey: Book VI - Ancinet-Mythology.com The Odyssey Book VI While thus the weary wanderer sunk to rest, And peaceful slumbers calmed his anxious breast, The martial maid from heavens aerial height Swift to Phaeacia wing'd her rapid flight, In elder times the soft Phaeacian train In ease possess'd the wide Hyperian plain; Till the Cyclopean race in arms arose A lawless nation of gigantic foes; Then great Nausithous from Hyperia far, Through seas retreating from the sounds of war, The recreant nation to fair Scheria led, Where never science rear'd her laurell'd head; There round his tribes a strength of wall he raised; To heaven the glittering domes and temples blazed; Just to his realms, he parted grounds from grounds, And shared the lands, and gave the lands their bounds.
Argumentative:to waste thy hours away!
Argumentative:And sleep'st thou careless of the bridal day!
Argumentative:A just applause the cares of dress impart, And give soft transport to a parent's heart.
Argumentative:Haste, to the limpid stream direct thy way, When the gay morn unveils her smiling ray; Haste to the stream!
Argumentative:companion of thy care, Lo, I thy steps attend, thy labours share.
Argumentative:the marriage hour is nigh, See from their thrones thy kindred monarchs sigh!
Argumentative:Then to the palaces of heaven she sails, Incumbent on the wings of wafting gales; The seat of gods; the regions mild of peace, Full joy, and calm eternity of ease.
Argumentative:There no rude winds presume to shake the skies, No rains descend, no snowy vapours rise; But on immortal thrones the blest repose; The firmament with living splendours glows.
Argumentative:Up rose the virgin with the morning light, Obedient to the vision of the night.
Argumentative:Meanwhile Phaeacia's peers in council sate; From his high dome the king descends in state; Then with a filial awe the royal maid Approach'd him passing, and submissive said: "Will my dread sire his ear regardful deign, And may his child the royal car obtain?
Argumentative:A dignity of dress adorns the great, And kings draw lustre from the robe of state.
Argumentative:And spotless robes become the young and gay; So when with praise amid the dance they shine, By these my cares adorn'd that praise is mine."
Argumentative:Swift at the royal nod the attending train The car prepare, the mules incessant rein, The blooming virgin with despatchful cares Tunics, and stoles, and robes imperial, bears.
Argumentative:The queen, assiduous to her train assigns The sumptuous viands, and the flavorous wines.
Argumentative:whose soft refreshing streams Sleek the smooth skin, and scent the snowy limbs.
Argumentative:They seek the cisterns where Phaeacian dames Wash their fair garments in the limpid streams; Where, gathering into depth from falling rills, The lucid wave a spacious bason fills.
Argumentative:Along the skies, Toss'd and retoss'd, the ball incessant flies.
Argumentative:They sport, they feast; Nausicaa lifts her voice, And, warbling sweet, makes earth and heaven rejoice.
Argumentative:As when o'er Erymanth Diana roves, Or wide Tuygetus' resounding groves ; A sylvan train the huntress queen surrounds, Her rattling quiver from her shoulders sounds: Fierce in the sport, along the mountain's brow They bay the boar, or chase the bounding roe; High o'er the lawn, with more majestic pace, Above the nymphs she treads with stately grace; Distinguish'd excellence the goddess proves; Exults Latona as the virgin moves.
Argumentative:With equal grace Nausicaa trod the plain, And shone transcendent o'er the beauteous train.
Argumentative:but Pallas now address'd To break the bands of all-composing rest.
Argumentative:Then, where the grove with leaves umbrageous bends, With forceful strength a branch the hero rends; Around his loins the verdant cincture spreads A wreathy foliage and concealing shades.
Argumentative:If in that bright disguise Thou visit earth, a daughter of the skies, Hail, Dian, hail!
Argumentative:the huntress of the groves So shines majestic, and so stately moves, So breathes an air divine!
Argumentative:Blest are the brethren who thy blood divide, To such a miracle of charms allied: Joyful they see applauding princes gaze, When stately in the dance you swim the harmonious maze.
Argumentative:But blest o'er all, the youth with heavenly charms, Who clasps the bright perfection in his arms!
Argumentative:Thus seems the palm with stately honours crown'd By Phoebus' altars; thus o'erlooks the ground; The pride of Delos.
Argumentative:for earth ne'er knew to bear A plant so stately, or a nymph so fair.
Argumentative:Inured to cares, to death in all its forms; Outcast I rove, familiar with the storms.
Argumentative:Propitious to my wants a vest supply To guard the wretched from the inclement sky: So may the gods, who heaven and earth control, Crown the chaste wishes of thy virtuous soul, On thy soft hours their choicest blessings shed; Blest with a husband be thy bridal bed; Blest be thy husband with a blooming race, And lasting union crown your blissful days. The gods, when they supremely bless, bestow Firm union on their favourites below; Then envy grieves, with inly-pining hate; The good exult, and heaven is in our state."
Argumentative:Bear, with a soul resign'd, the will of Jove; Who breathes, must mourn: thy woes are from above.
Argumentative:But since thou tread'st our hospitable shore, 'Tis mine to bid the wretched grieve no more, To clothe the naked, and thy way to guide.
Argumentative:Then to her maids: "Why, why, ye coward train, These fears, this flight?
Argumentative:dismiss that idle dread, 'Tis death with hostile step these shores to tread; Safe in the love of heaven, an ocean flows Around our realm, a barrier from the foes; 'Tis ours this son of sorrow to relieve, Cheer the sad heart, nor let affliction grieve.
Argumentative:By Jove the stranger and the poor are sent; And what to those we give to Jove is lent.
Argumentative:To them the king: "No longer I detain Your friendly care: retire, ye virgin train!
Argumentative:since this worn frame refection know, What scenes have I surveyed of dreadful view!
Argumentative:But, nymphs, recede!
Argumentative:The nymphs withdrawn, at once into the tide Active he bounds; the flashing waves divide O'er all his limbs his hands the waves diffuse, And from his locks compress the weedy ooze; The balmy oil, a fragrant shower, be sheds; Then, dressed, in pomp magnificently treads.
Argumentative:The warrior-goddess gives his frame to shine With majesty enlarged, and air divine: Back from his brows a length of hair unfurls, His hyacinthine locks descend in wavy curls.
Argumentative:Soft he reclines along the murmuring seas, Inhaling freshness from the fanning breeze.
Argumentative:The maids the viands and the bowl supplied: Eager he fed, for keen his hunger raged, And with the generous vintage thirst assuaged.
Argumentative:Close to the bay great Neptune's fane adjoins; And near, a forum flank'd with marble shines, Where the bold youth, the numerous fleets to store, Shape the broad sail, or smooth the taper oar: For not the bow they bend, nor boast the skill To give the feather'd arrow wings to kill; But the tall mast above the vessel rear, Or teach the fluttering sail to float in air.
Argumentative:They rush into the deep with eager joy, Climb the steep surge, and through the tempest fly; A proud, unpolish'd race--To me belongs The care to shun the blast of slanderous tongues; Lest malice, prone the virtuous to defame, Thus with wild censure taint my spotless name: 'What stranger this whom thus Nausicaa leads!
Argumentative:All, all the godlike worthies that adorn This realm, she flies: Phaeacia is her scorn.
Argumentative:Hence lies the town, as far as to the ear Floats a strong shout along the waves of air.
Argumentative:Arrived, advance, impatient of delay, And to the lofty palace bend thy way: The lofty palace overlooks the town, From every dome by pomp superior known; A child may point the way.
Argumentative:Till great Ulysses hail'd his native land.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00020	
Argumentative:The prince, obedient to the sage command, To Euryclea thus: "The female band In their apartments keep; secure the doors; These swarthy arms among the covert stores Are seemlier hid; my thoughtless youth they blame, Imbrown'd with vapour of the smouldering flame."
Argumentative:He said: from female ken she straight secures The purposed deed, and guards the bolted doors: Auxiliar to his son, Ulysses bears The plumy-crested helms and pointed spears, With shields indented deep in glorious wars.
Argumentative:Not such the sickly beams, which unsincere Gild the gross vapour of this nether sphere!
Argumentative:A present deity the prince confess'd, And wrapp'd with ecstasy the sire address'd: "What miracle thus dazzles with surprise!
Argumentative:Distinct in rows the radiant columns rise; The walls, where'er my wondering sight I turn, And roofs, amidst a blaze of glory burn!
Argumentative:With tapers flaming day his train attends, His bright alcove the obsequious youth ascends: Soft slumberous shades his drooping eyelids close, Till on her eastern throne Aurora glows.
Argumentative:Her cheeks the warmer blush of Venus wear, Chasten'd with coy Diana's pensive air.
Argumentative:An ivory seat with silver ringlets graced, By famed Icmalius wrought, the menials placed: With ivory silver'd thick the footstool shone, O'er which the panther's various hide was thrown.
Argumentative:Vagrant, begone!
Argumentative:before this blazing brand Shall urge"--and waved it hissing in her hand.
Argumentative:The insulted hero rolls his wrathful eyes And "Why so turbulent of soul?
Argumentative:Constrain'd a rent-charge on the rich I live; Reduced to crave the good I once could give: A palace, wealth, and slaves, I late possess'd, And all that makes the great be call'd the bless'd: My gate, an emblem of my open soul, Embraced the poor, and dealt a bounteous dole.
Argumentative:Scorn not the sad reverse, injurious maid!
Argumentative:'Tis Jove's high will, and be his will obey'd!
Argumentative:Nor think thyself exempt: that rosy prime Must share the general doom of withering time: To some new channel soon the changeful tide Of royal grace the offended queen may guide; And her loved lord unplume thy towering pride.
Argumentative:Or, were he dead, 'tis wisdom to beware: Sweet blooms the prince beneath Apollo's care; Your deeds with quick impartial eye surveys, Potent to punish what he cannot praise."
Argumentative:Her keen reproach had reach'd the sovereign's ear: "Loquacious insolent!
Argumentative:But thou on whom my palace cares depend, Eurynome, regard the stranger-friend: A seat, soft spread with furry spoils, prepare; Due-distant for us both to speak, and hear."
Argumentative:whose far-resounding fame Is bounded only by the starry frame, Consummate pattern of imperial sway, Whose pious rule a warlike race obey!
Argumentative:In wavy gold thy summer vales are dress'd; Thy autumns bind with copious fruit oppress'd: With flocks and herds each grassy plain is stored; And fish of every fin thy seas afford: Their affluent joys the grateful realms confess; And bless the power that still delights to bless, Gracious permit this prayer, imperial dame!
Argumentative:Forbear to know my lineage, or my name: Urge not this breast to heave, these eyes to weep; In sweet oblivion let my sorrows sleep!
Argumentative:My woes awaked, will violate your ear, And to this gay censorious train appear A whiny vapour melting in a tear."
Argumentative:My lord's protecting hand alone would raise My drooping verdure, and extend my praise!
Argumentative:Peers from the distant Samian shore resort: Here with Dulichians join'd, besiege the court: Zacynthus, green with ever-shady groves, And Ithaca, presumptuous, boast their loves: Obtruding on my choice a second lord, They press the Hymenaean rite abhorr'd.
Argumentative:Misrule thus mingling with domestic cares, I live regardless of my state affairs; Receive no stranger-guest, no poor relieve; But ever for my lord in secret grieve!
Argumentative:For when to fate he bows, each Grecian dame With just reproach were licensed to defame, Should he, long honour'd in supreme command, Want the last duties of a daughter's hand.
Argumentative:' The fiction pleased; their loves I long elude; The night still ravell'd what the day renew'd: Three years successful in my heart conceal'd, My ineffectual fraud the fourth reveal'd: Befriended by my own domestic spies, The woof unwrought the suitor-train surprise.
Argumentative:From nuptial rites they now no more recede, And fear forbids to falsify the brede.
Argumentative:My anxious parents urge a speedy choice, And to their suffrage gain the filial voice.
Argumentative:For rule mature, Telemachus deplores His dome dishonour'd, and exhausted stores-- But, stranger!
Argumentative:as thy days seem full of fate, Divide discourse, in turn thy birth relate: Thy port asserts thee of distinguish'd race; No poor unfather'd product of disgrace."
Argumentative:So pays the wretch whom fate constrains to roam, The dues of nature to his natal home!
Argumentative:-- But inward on my soul let sorrow prey, Your sovereign will my duty bids obey.
Argumentative:"Crete awes the circling waves, a fruitful soil!
Argumentative:'Twas then to Crete the great Ulysses came.
Argumentative:For elemental war, and wintry Jove, From Malea's gusty cape his navy drove To bright Lucina's fane; the shelfy coast Where loud Amnisus in the deep is lost.
Argumentative:Twelve days while Boreas vex'd the aerial space, My hospitable dome he deign'd to grace: And when the north had ceased the stormy roar, He wing'd his voyage to the Phrygian shore."
Argumentative:A speechless interval of grief ensues, Till thus the queen the tender theme renews.
Argumentative:that e'er thy hospitable roof Ulysses graced, confirm by faithful proof; Delineate to my view my warlike lord, His form, his habit, and his train record."
Argumentative:--In ample mode, A robe of military purple flow'd O'er all his frame: illustrious on his breast, The double-clasping gold the king confess'd.
Argumentative:In the rich woof a hound, mosaic drawn, Bore on full stretch, and seized a dappled fawn; Deep in the neck his fangs indent their hold; They pant and struggle in the moving gold.
Argumentative:Fine as a filmy web beneath it shone A vest, that dazzled like a cloudless sun: The female train who round him throng'd to gaze, In silent wonder sigh'd unwilling praise.
Argumentative:A sabre, when the warrior press'd to part, I gave, enamell'd with Vulcanian art: A mantle purple-tinged, and radiant vest, Dimension'd equal to his size, express'd Affection grateful to my honour'd guest.
Argumentative:A favourite herald in his train I knew, His visage solemn, sad of sable hue: Short woolly curls o'erfleeced his bending head, O'er which a promontory shoulder spread; Eurybates; in whose large soul alone Ulysses view'd an image of his own."
Argumentative:The vest much envied on your native coast, And regal robe with figured gold emboss'd, In happier hours my artful hand employ'd, When my loved lord this blissful bower enjoy'd: The fall of Troy erroneous and forlorn Doom'd to survive, and never to return!"
Argumentative:Your ever-anxious mind, and beauteous frame, From the devouring rage of grief reclaim.
Argumentative:I not the fondness of your soul reprove For such a lord!
Argumentative:Suggest, that Jove the peaceful thought inspired, Lest they, by sight of swords to fury fired, Dishonest wounds, or violence of soul, Defame the bridal feast and friendly bowl."
Argumentative:who crown'd your virgin love With the dear blessing of a fair increase; Himself adorn'd with more than mortal grace: Yet while I speak the mighty woe suspend; Truth forms my tale; to pleasing truth attend.
Argumentative:That race who emulate the life of gods, Receive him joyous to their bless'd abodes; Large gifts confer, a ready sail command, To speed his voyage to the Grecian strand.
Argumentative:Thus lives your lord; nor longer doom'd to roam; Soon will he grace this dear paternal dome.
Argumentative:By Jove, the source of good, supreme in power!
Argumentative:By the bless'd genius of this friendly bower!
Argumentative:I ratify my speech, before the sun His annual longitude of heaven shall run; When the pale empress of yon starry train In the next month renews her faded wane, Ulysses will assert his rightful reign."
Argumentative:My lord's return should fate no more retard, Envy shall sicken at thy vast reward.
Argumentative:But my prophetic fears, alas!
Argumentative:presage The wounds of Destiny's relentless rage.
Argumentative:I long must weep, nor will Ulysses come, With royal gifts to send you honour'd home!
Argumentative:-- Your other task, ye menial train forbear: Now wash the stranger, and the bed prepare: With splendid palls the downy fleece adorn: Uprising early with the purple morn.
Argumentative:His sinews, shrunk with age, and stiff with toil, In the warm bath foment with fragrant oil.
Argumentative:Then with Telemachus the social feast Partaking free, my soul invited guest; Whoe'er neglects to pay distinction due, The breach of hospitable right may rue.
Argumentative:A narrow space Confines the circle of our destin'd race; 'Tis ours with good the scanty round to grace.
Argumentative:Those who to cruel wrong their state abuse, Dreaded in life the mutter'd curse pursues; By death disrobed of all their savage powers, Then, licensed rage her hateful prey devours.
Argumentative:But he whose inborn worth his acts commend, Of gentle soul, to human race a friend; The wretched he relieves diffuse his fame, And distant tongues extol the patron-name."
Argumentative:Nor will my heart-corroding care abate With splendid palls, and canopies of state: Low-couch'd on earth, the gift of sleep I scorn, And catch the glances of the waking morn.
Argumentative:Such servant as your humble choice requires, To light received the lord of my desires, New from the birth; and with a mother's hand His tender bloom to manly growth sustain'd: Of matchless prudence, and a duteous mind; Though now to life's extremest verge declined, Of strength superior to the toil design'd- Rise, Euryclea!
Argumentative:with officious care For the poor friend the cleansing bath prepare: This debt his correspondent fortunes claim, Too like Ulysses, and perhaps the same!
Argumentative:Thus old with woes my fancy paints him now!
Argumentative:Instant, obsequious to the mild command, Sad Euryclea rose: with trembling hand She veils the torrent of her tearful eyes; And thus impasaion'd to herself replies: "Son of my love, and monarch of my cares, What pangs for thee this wretched bosom bears!
Argumentative:Are thus by Jove who constant beg his aid With pious deed, and pure devotion, paid?
Argumentative:The pious vows are lost; His God forgets him on a foreign coast!
Argumentative:-- Perhaps, like thee, poor guest!
Argumentative:Conscious of worth reviled, thy generous mind The friendly rite of purity declined; My will concurring with my queen's command, Accept the bath from this obsequious hand.
Argumentative:A strong emotion shakes my anguish'd breast: In thy whole form Ulysses seems express'd; Of all the wretched harboured on our coast, None imaged e'er like thee my master lost."
Argumentative:Thus half-discover'd through the dark disguise, With cool composure feign'd, the chief replies: "You join your suffrage to the public vote; The same you think have all beholders thought."
Argumentative:He said: replenish'd from the purest springs, The laver straight with busy care she brings: In the deep vase, that shone like burnish'd gold, The boiling fluid temperates the cold.
Argumentative:Meantime revolving in his thoughtful mind The scar, with which his manly knee was sign'd; His face averting from the crackling blaze, His shoulders intercept the unfriendly rays: Thus cautious in the obscure he hoped to fly The curious search of Euryclea's eye.
Argumentative:Cautious in vain!
Argumentative:Then thus the hoary chief: "My victor arms Have awed the realms around with dire alarms: A sure memorial of my dreaded fame The boy shall bear; Ulysses be his name!
Argumentative:And when with filial love the youth shall come To view his mother's soil, my Delphic dome With gifts of price shall send him joyous home."
Argumentative:Lured with the promised boon, when youthful prime Ended in man, his mother's natal clime Ulysses sought; with fond affection dear Amphitea's arms received the royal heir: Her ancient lord an equal joy possess'd; Instant he bade prepare the genial feast: A steer to form the sumptuous banquet bled, Whose stately growth five flowery summers fed: His sons divide, and roast with artful care The limbs; then all the tasteful viands share.
Argumentative:Their drooping eyes the slumberous shade oppress'd, Sated they rose, and all retired to rest.
Argumentative:Parnassus, thick perplex'd with horrid shades, With deep-mouth'd hounds the hunter-troop invades; What time the sun, from ocean's peaceful stream, Darts o'er the lawn his horizontal beam.
Argumentative:Deep in the rough recesses of the wood, A lofty copse, the growth of ages, stood; Nor winter's boreal blast, nor thunderous shower, Nor solar ray, could pierce the shady bower.
Argumentative:The warm pavilion of a dreadful boar.
Argumentative:Roused by the hounds' and hunters' mingling cries, The savage from his leafy shelter flies; With fiery glare his sanguine eye-balls shine, And bristles high impale his horrid chine.
Argumentative:Young lthacus advanced, defies the foe, Poising his lifted lance in act to throw; The savage renders vain the wound decreed, And springs impetuous with opponent speed!
Argumentative:With bandage firm Ulysses' knee they bound; Then, chanting mystic lays, the closing wound Of sacred melody confess'd the force; The tides of life regain'd their azure course.
Argumentative:He safe at Ithaca with joy received, Relates the chase, and early praise achieved.
Argumentative:Smiles dew'd with tears the pleasing strife express'd Of grief and joy, alternate in her breast.
Argumentative:Her fluttering words in melting murmurs died; At length abrupt--"My son!
Argumentative:His neck with fond embrace infolding fast, Full on the queen her raptured eye she cast Ardent to speak the monarch safe restored: But, studious to conceal her royal lord, Minerva fix'd her mind on views remote, And from the present bliss abstracts her thought.
Argumentative:His hand to Euryclea's mouth applied, "Art thou foredoom'd my pest?
Argumentative:An exile have I told, with weeping eyes, Full twenty annual suns in distant skies; At length return'd, some god inspires thy breast To know thy king, and here I stand confess'd.
Argumentative:This heaven-discover'd truth to thee consign'd, Reserve the treasure of thy inmost mind: Else, if the gods my vengeful arm sustain, And prostrate to my sword the suitor-train; With their lewd mates, thy undistinguish'd age Shall bleed a victim to vindictive rage."
Argumentative:Deep in my soul the trust shall lodge secured; With ribs of steel, and marble heart, immured.
Argumentative:When Heaven, auspicious to thy right avow'd, Shall prostrate to thy sword the suitor-crowd, The deeds I'll blazon of the menial fair; The lewd to death devote, the virtuous spare."
Argumentative:Adjusting to his limbs the tatter'd vest, His former seat received the stranger guest; Whom thus with pensive air the queen addressed: "Though night, dissolving grief in grateful ease, Your drooping eyes with soft impression seize; Awhile, reluctant to her pleasing force, Suspend the restful hour with sweet discourse.
Argumentative:As when the months are clad in flowery green, Sad Philomel, in bowery shades unseen, To vernal airs attunes her varied strains; And Itylus sounds warbling o'er the plains; Young Itylus, his parents' darling joy!
Argumentative:So in nocturnal solitude forlorn, A sad variety of woes I mourn!
Argumentative:My mind, reflective, in a thorny maze Devious from care to care incessant strays.
Argumentative:Now, wavering doubt succeeds to long despair; Shall I my virgin nuptial vow revere; And, joining to my son's my menial train, Partake his counsels, and assist his reign?
Argumentative:to his will accord; And from the peers select the noblest lord; So by my choice avow'd, at length decide These wasteful love-debates, a mourning bride!
Argumentative:The bird of Jove Fierce from his mountain-eyrie downward drove; Each favourite fowl he pounced with deathful sway, And back triumphant wing'd his airy way.
Argumentative:My pitying eyes effused a plenteous stream, To view their death thus imaged in a dream; With tender sympathy to soothe my soul, A troop of matrons, fancy-form'd, condole.
Argumentative:When from the downy bands of sleep released, Fsat by the limpid lake my swan-like train I found, insatiate of the golden grain."
Argumentative:So, when the sun restores the purple day, Their strength and skill the suitors shall assay; To him the spousal honour is decreed, Who through the rings directs the feather'd reed.
Argumentative:yet me withdrawn, Wakeful to weep and watch the tardy dawn Establish'd use enjoins; to rest and joy Estranged, since dear Ulysses sail'd to Troy!
Argumentative:Meantime instructed is the menial tribe Your couch to fashion as yourself prescribe."
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00022	
Argumentative:To cringe, to whine, his idle hands to spread, Is all, by which that graceless maw is fed.
Argumentative:To wipe the tears from all afflicted eyes, My will may covet, but my power denies.
Argumentative:If this raise anger in the stranger's thought, The pain of anger punishes the fault: The very truth I undisguised declare; For what so easy as to be sincere?"
Argumentative:To want like mine the peopled town can yield More hopes of comfort than the lonely field: Nor fits my age to till the labour'd lands, Or stoop to tasks a rural lord demands.
Argumentative:but since this ragged garb can bear So ill the inclemencies of morning air, A few hours' space permit me here to stay: My steps Eumaeus shall to town convey, With riper beams when Phoebus warms the day."
Argumentative:Thus he: nor aught Telemachus replied, But left the mansion with a lofty stride: Schemes of revenge his pondering breast elate, Revolving deep the suitors' sudden fate, Arriving now before the imperial hall, He props his spear against the pillar'd wall; Then like a lion o'er the threshold bounds; The marble pavement with his steps resounds: His eye first glanced where Euryclea spreads With furry spoils of beasts the splendid beds: She saw, she wept, she ran with eager pace, And reach'd her master with a long embrace.
Argumentative:So snatch'd from all our cares!
Argumentative:--Tell, hast thou known Thy father's fate, and tell me all thy own."
Argumentative:most revered of womankind!
Argumentative:Go bathe, and robed in white ascend the towers; With all thy handmaids thank the immortal powers; To every god vow hecatombs to bleed.
Argumentative:And call Jove's vengeance on their guilty deed.
Argumentative:She bathed; and, robed in white, with all her train, To every god vow'd hecatombs to bleed, And call'd Jove's vengeance on the guilty deed, Arm'd with his lance, the prince then pass'd the gate, Two dogs behind, a faithful guard, await; Pallas his form with grace divine improves: The gazing crowd admires him as he moves.
Argumentative:Him, gathering round, the haughty suitors greet With semblance fair, but inward deep deceit, Their false addresses, generous, he denied.
Argumentative:Of his own fortunes, and Ulysses' fame, Much ask'd the seniors; till Peiraeus came.
Argumentative:The stranger-guest pursued him close behind; Whom when Telemachus beheld, he join'd.
Argumentative:He (when Peiraeus ask'd for slaves to bring The gifts and treasures of the Spartan king) Thus thoughtful answer'd: "Those we shall not move, Dark and unconscious of the will of Jove; We know not yet the full event of all: Stabb'd in his palace if your prince must fall, Us, and our house, if treason must o'erthrow, Better a friend possess them than a foe; If death to these, and vengeance Heaven decree, Riches are welcome then, not else, to me.
Argumentative:Till then retain the gifts."
Argumentative:--The hero said, And in his hand the willing stranger led.
Argumentative:The golden ewer a nymph attendant brings, Replenish'd from the pure translucent springs; With copious streams that golden ewer supplies A silver layer of capacious size.
Argumentative:They wash: the table, in fair order spread, Is piled with viands and the strength of bread.
Argumentative:Full opposite, before the folding gate, The pensive mother sits in humble state; Lowly she sate, and with dejected view The fleecy threads her ivory fingers drew.
Argumentative:The prince and stranger shared the genial feast, Till now the rage of thirst and hunger ceased.
Argumentative:The least glad tidings of my absent lord?"
Argumentative:"We reach'd the Pylian plains, Where Nestor, shepherd of his people, reigns.
Argumentative:All arts of tenderness to him are known, Kind to Ulysses' race as to his own; No father with a fonder grasp of joy Strains to his bosom his long-absent boy.
Argumentative:But all unknown, if yet Ulysses breathe, Or glide a spectre in the realms beneath; For farther search, his rapid steeds transport My lengthen'd journey to the Spartan court.
Argumentative:My cause of coming told, he thus rejoin'd; And still his words live perfect in my mind: "'Heavens!
Argumentative:would a soft, inglorious, dastard train An absent hero's nuptial joys profane So with her young, amid the woodland shades, A timorous hind the lion's court invades, Leaves in that fatal lair her tender fawns, And climbs the cliffs, or feeds along the lawns; Meantime returning, with remorseless sway The monarch savage rends the panting prey: With equal fury, and with equal fame, Shall great Ulysses reassert his claim.
Argumentative:whom men and gods revere; And thou whose lustre gilds the rolling sphere!
Argumentative:With power congenial join'd, propitious aid The chief adopted by the martial maid!
Argumentative:Such to our wish the warrior soon restore, As when, contending on the Lesbian shore, His prowess Philomelides confess'd, And loud acclaiming Greeks the victor bless'd: Then soon the invaders of his bed, and throne, Their love presumptuous shall by death atone.
Argumentative:No sailors there, no vessels to convey, No oars to cut the immeasurable way.
Argumentative:Before the first of gods be this declared, Before the board whose blessings we have shared; Witness the genial rites, and witness all This house holds sacred in her ample wall!
Argumentative:E'en now, this instant, great Ulysses, laid At rest, or wandering in his country's shade, Their guilty deeds, in hearing, and in view, Secret revolves; and plans the vengeance due.
Argumentative:Of this sure auguries the gods bestow'd, When first our vessel anchor'd in your road."
Argumentative:"Succeed those omens, Heaven!
Argumentative:Then sheep, and goats, and bristly porkers bled, And the proud steer was o'er the marble spread.
Argumentative:While thus the copious banquet they provide, Along the road, conversing side by side, Proceed Ulysses and the faithful swain; When thus Eumaeus, generous and humane: "To town, observant of our lord's behest, Now let us speed; my friend no more my guest!
Argumentative:Yet like myself I wish thee here preferr'd, Guard of the flock, or keeper of the herd, But much to raise my master's wrath I fear; The wrath of princes ever is severe.
Argumentative:Across his shoulders then the scrip he flung, Wide-patch'd, and fasten'd by a twisted thong.
Argumentative:And now his city strikes the monarch's eyes, Alas!
Argumentative:With an envious look He eyed the stranger, and imperious spoke: "The good old proverb how this pair fulfil!
Argumentative:Heaven with a secret principle endued Mankind, to seek their own similitude.
Argumentative:Where goes the swineherd with that ill-look'd guest?
Argumentative:That giant-glutton, dreadful at a feast!
Argumentative:Full many a post have those broad shoulders worn, From every great man's gate repulsed with scorn: To no brave prize aspired the worthless swain, 'Twas but for scraps he ask'd, and ask'd in vain.
Argumentative:To beg, than work, he better understands, Or we perhaps might take him off thy hands.
Argumentative:For any office could the slave be good, To cleanse the fold, or help the kids to food.
Argumentative:He thus: nor insolent of word alone, Spurn'd with his rustic heel his king unknown; Spurn'd, but not moved: he like a pillar stood, Nor stirr'd an inch, contemptuous, from the road: Doubtful, or with his staff to strike him dead, Or greet the pavement with his worthless head.
Argumentative:who from the ethereal bowers Descend to swell the springs, and feed the flowers!
Argumentative:to whose sacred names Our rural victims mount in blazing flames!
Argumentative:To whom Ulysses' piety preferr'd The yearly firstlings of his flock and herd; Succeed my wish, your votary restore: Oh, be some god his convoy to our shore!
Argumentative:Due pains shall punish then this slave's offence, And humble all his airs of insolence, Who, proudly stalking, leaves the herds at large, Commences courtier, and neglects his charge."
Argumentative:The day shall come--nay, 'tis already near-- When, slave!
Argumentative:to sell thee at a price too dear Must be my care; and hence transport thee o'er, A load and scandal to this happy shore.
Argumentative:that as surely great Apollo's dart, Or some brave suitor's sword, might pierce the heart Of the proud son; as that we stand this hour In lasting safety from the father's power!"
Argumentative:So spoke the wretch, but, shunning farther fray, Turn'd his proud step, and left them on their way.
Argumentative:Straight to the feastful palace he repair'd, Familiar enter'd, and the banquet shared; Beneath Eurymachus, his patron lord, He took his place, and plenty heap'd the board.
Argumentative:Stage above stage the imperial structure stands, Holds the chief honours, and the town commands: High walls and battlements the courts inclose, And the strong gates defy a host of foes.
Argumentative:Wait for a space without, but wait not long; This is the house of violence and wrong: Some rude insult thy reverend age may bear; For like their lawless lords the servants are."
Argumentative:not fated long to please his lord; To him, his swiftness and his strength were vain; The voice of glory call'd him o'er the main.
Argumentative:Now left to man's ingratitude he lay, Unhoused, neglected in the public way; And where on heaps the rich manure was spread, Obscene with reptiles, took his sordid bed.
Argumentative:Soft pity touch'd the mighty master's soul; Adown his cheek a tear unbidden stole, Stole unperceived: he turn'd his head and dried The drop humane: then thus impassion'd cried: "What noble beast in this abandon'd state Lies here all helpless at Ulysses' gate?
Argumentative:His bulk and beauty speak no vulgar praise: If, as he seems, he was in better days, Some care his age deserves; or was he prized For worthless beauty?
Argumentative:therefore now despised; Such dogs and men there are, mere things of state; And always cherish'd by their friends, the great."
Argumentative:Long, long since perish'd on a distant shore!
Argumentative:The women keep the generous creature bare, A sleek and idle race is all their care: The master gone, the servants what restrains?
Argumentative:Jove fix'd it certain, that whatever day Makes man a slave, takes half his worth away."
Argumentative:This said, the honest herdsman strode before; The musing monarch pauses at the door: The dog, whom Fate had granted to behold His lord, when twenty tedious years had roll'd, Takes a last look, and having seen him, dies; So closed for ever faithful Argus' eyes!
Argumentative:Before him instant was the banquet spread, And the bright basket piled with loaves of bread.
Argumentative:In squalid vests, with many a gaping rent, Propp'd or a staff, and trembling as he went.
Argumentative:bear, And let yon mendicant our plenty share: And let him circle round the suitors' board, And try the bounty of each gracious lord.
Argumentative:Bold let him ask, encouraged thus by me: How ill, alas!
Argumentative:His lord's command the faithful servant bears: The seeming beggar answers with his prayers: "Bless'd be Telemachus!
Argumentative:Soon as the suitors from the banquet rose, Minerva prompts the man of mighty woes To tempt their bounties with a suppliant's art, And learn the generous from the ignoble heart (Not but his soul, resentful as humane, Dooms to full vengeance all the offending train); With speaking eyes, and voice of plaintive sound, Humble he moves, imploring all around.
Argumentative:The proud feel pity, and relief bestow, With such an image touch'd of human woe; Inquiring all, their wonder they confess, And eye the man, majestic in distress.
Argumentative:While thus they gaze and question with their eyes, The bold Melanthius to their thought replies: "My lords!
Argumentative:this stranger of gigantic port The good Eumaeus usher'd to your court.
Argumentative:"And is this present, swineherd!
Argumentative:Such guests Eumaeus to his country brings, To share our feast, and lead the life of kings."
Argumentative:To whom the hospitable swain rejoins: "Thy passion, prince, belies thy knowing mind.
Argumentative:Who calls, from distant nations to his own, The poor, distinguish'd by their wants alone?
Argumentative:Round the wide world are sought those men divine Who public structures raise, or who design; Those to whose eyes the gods their ways reveal, Or bless with salutary arts to heal; But chief to poets such respect belongs, By rival nations courted for their songs; These states invite, and mighty kings admire, Wide as the sun displays his vital fire.
Argumentative:It is not so with want!
Argumentative:Unjust to me, and all that serve the state, To love Ulysses is to raise thy hate.
Argumentative:To him Telemachus: "No more incense The man by nature prone to insolence: Injurious minds just answers but provoke"-- Then turning to Antinous, thus he spoke: "Thanks to thy care!
Argumentative:whose absolute command Thus drives the stranger from our court and land.
Argumentative:Heaven bless its owner with a better mind!
Argumentative:From envy free, to charity inclined.
Argumentative:This both Penelope and I afford: Then, prince!
Argumentative:be bounteous of Ulysses' board.
Argumentative:To give another's is thy hand so slow?
Argumentative:So much more sweet to spoil than to bestow?"
Argumentative:"Whence, great Telemachus!
Argumentative:this lofty strain?
Argumentative:(Antinous cries with insolent disdain): Portions like mine if every suitor gave, Our walls this twelvemonth should not see the slave."
Argumentative:He spoke, and lifting high above the board His ponderous footstool, shook it at his lord.
Argumentative:thou dost not seem the worst Of all the Greeks, but prince-like and the first; Then, as in dignity, be first in worth, And I shall praise thee through the boundless earth.
Argumentative:The spreading clamour to their city flies, And horse and foot in mingled tumults rise: The reddening dawn reveals the hostile fields, Horrid with bristly spears, and gleaming shields: Jove thunder'd on their side: our guilty head We turn'd to flight; the gathering vengeance spread On all parts round, and heaps on heaps lay dead.
Argumentative:Some few the foe in servitude detain; Death ill exchanged for bondage and for pain!
Argumentative:To whom Antinous thus his rage express'd: "What god has plagued us with this gourmand guest?
Argumentative:Unless at distance, wretch!
Argumentative:thou keep behind, Another isle, than Cyprus more unkind, Another Egypt shalt thou quickly find.
Argumentative:From all thou begg'st, a bold audacious slave; Nor all can give so much as thou canst crave.
Argumentative:Nor wonder I, at such profusion shown; Shameless they give, who give what's not their own."
Argumentative:The chief, retiring: "Souls, like that in thee, Ill suits such forms of grace and dignity.
Argumentative:Nor will that hand to utmost need afford The smallest portion of a wasteful board, Whose luxury whole patrimonies sweeps, Yet starving want, amidst the riot, weeps."
Argumentative:His shoulder-blade received the ungentle shock; He stood, and moved not, like a marble rock; But shook his thoughtful head, nor more complain'd, Sedate of soul, his character sustain'd, And inly form'd revenge; then back withdrew: Before his feet the well fill'd scrip he threw, And thus with semblance mild address'd the crew: "May what I speak your princely minds approve, Ye peers and rivals in this noble love!
Argumentative:If, when the sword our country's quarrel draws, Or if, defending what is justly dear, From Mars impartial some broad wound we bear, The generous motive dignifies the scar.
Argumentative:But for mere want, how hard to suffer wrong!
Argumentative:Want brings enough of other ills along!
Argumentative:Yet, if injustice never be secure, If fiends revenge, and gods assert the poor, Death shall lay low the proud aggressor's head, And make the dust Antinous' bridal bed."
Argumentative:"Peace, wretch!
Argumentative:His furious deed the general anger moved, All, even the worst, condemn'd; and some reproved.
Argumentative:Ill fits the stranger and the poor to wound.
Argumentative:The nurse replies: "If Jove receives my prayer, Not one survives to breathe to-morrow's air."
Argumentative:Amidst her maids thus spoke the prudent queen, Then bade Eumaeus call the pilgrim in.
Argumentative:Thus she, and good Eumaeus took the word: "A private audience if thy grace impart, The stranger's words may ease the royal heart.
Argumentative:His sacred eloquence in balm distils, And the soothed heart with secret pleasure fills.
Argumentative:Three days have spent their beams, three nights have run Their silent journey, since his tale begun, Unfinish'd yet; and yet I thirst to hear!
Argumentative:He now but waits the wind to waft him o'er, With boundless treasure, from Thesprotia's shore."
Argumentative:For where's an arm, like thine, Ulysses!
Argumentative:Telemachus then sneezed aloud; Constrain'd, his nostril echoed through the crowd.
Argumentative:Then to Eumaeus: "Bring the stranger, fly!
Argumentative:Thus spoke Penelope.
Argumentative:Eumaeus flies In duteous haste, and to Ulysses cries: "The queen invites thee, venerable guest!
Argumentative:If true, if faithful thou, her grateful mind Of decent robes a present has design'd: So finding favour in the royal eye, Thy other wants her subjects shall supply."
Argumentative:Let for a space the pensive queen attend, Nor claim my story till the sun descend; Then in such robes as suppliants may require, Composed and cheerful by the genial fire, When loud uproar and lawless riot cease, Shall her pleased ear receive my words in peace."
Argumentative:With the begging kind Shame suits but ill."
Argumentative:These sons of murder thirst thy life to take; O guard it, guard it, for thy servant's sake!"
Argumentative:Our life to Heaven's immortal powers we trust, Safe in their care, for Heaven protects the just."
Argumentative:Then instant rose, and as he moved along, 'Twas riot all amid the suitor throng, They feast, they dance, and raise the mirthful song Till now, declining towards the close of day, The sun obliquely shot his dewy ray.
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00024	
Argumentative:The Odyssey: Book XXIII - Ancinet-Mythology.com The Odyssey Book XXIII Then to the queen, as in repose she lay, The nurse with eager rapture speeds her way: The transports of her faithful heart supply A sudden youth, and give her wings to fly.
Argumentative:At length appears the long-expected hour!
Argumentative:Ulysses comes!
Argumentative:the suitors are no more!
Argumentative:No more they view the golden light of day!
Argumentative:whither wanders thy distemper'd mind?
Argumentative:The righteous powers, who tread the starry skies, The weak enlighten, and confound the wise, And human thought, with unresisted sway, Depress or raise, enlarge or take away: Truth, by their high decree, thy voice forsakes, And folly with the tongue of wisdom speaks.
Argumentative:Unkind, the fond illusion to impose!
Argumentative:Why must I wake to grieve, and curse thy shore, O Troy?
Argumentative:--may never tongue pronounce thee more!
Argumentative:To whom with warmth: "My soul a lie disdains; Ulysses lives, thy own Ulysses reigns: That stranger, patient of the suitors' wrongs, And the rude license of ungovern'd tongues!
Argumentative:How could that numerous and outrageous band By one be slain, though by a hero's hand?"
Argumentative:Thy every wish the bounteous gods bestow; Enjoy the present good, and former woe.
Argumentative:Ulysses lives, his vanquish'd foes to see; He lives to thy Telemachus and thee!"
Argumentative:to contemn the stranger's righteous cause, And violate all hospitable laws!
Argumentative:For never must Ulysses view this shore; Never!
Argumentative:the loved Ulysses is no more!"
Argumentative:Then, daughter, haste away!
Argumentative:Who knows their motives, who shall trace their way?
Argumentative:Thus speaks the queen, and no reply attends, But with alternate joy and fear descends; At every step debates her lord to prove; Or, rushing to his arms, confess her love!
Argumentative:Then gliding through the marble valves, in state Opposed, before the shining sire she sate.
Argumentative:At length Telemachus: "Oh, who can find A woman like Penelope unkind?
Argumentative:Why thus in silence?
Argumentative:why with winning charms Thus slow to fly with rapture to his arms?
Argumentative:Stubborn the breast that with no transport glows, When twice ten years are pass'd of mighty woes; To softness lost, to spousal love unknown, The gods have formed that rigid heart of stone!"
Argumentative:(the queen rejoin'd,) Distracting fears confound my labouring mind; Powerless to speak.
Argumentative:This day our deepest care requires, Cautious to act what thought mature inspires.
Argumentative:If one man's blood, though mean, distain our hands, The homicide retreats to foreign lands; By us, in heaps the illustrious peerage falls, The important deed our whole attention calls."
Argumentative:the queen weds!
Argumentative:' The suitor's death, unknown, till we remove Far from the court, and act inspired by Jove."
Argumentative:Thus spoke the king: the observant train obey, At once they bathe, and dress in proud array: The lyrist strikes the string; gay youths advance, And fair-zoned damsels form the sprightly dance.
Argumentative:Thus they--but nobly chaste she weds no more.
Argumentative:Meanwhile the wearied king the bath ascends; With faithful cares Eurynome attends, O'er every limb a shower of fragrance sheds; Then, dress'd in pomp, magnificent he treads.
Argumentative:The warrior-goddess gives his frame to shine With majesty enlarged, and grace divine.
Argumentative:Back from his brows in wavy ringlets fly His thick large locks of hyacinthino dye.
Argumentative:As by some artist to whom Vulcan gives His heavenly skill, a breathing image lives; By Pallas taught, he frames the wondrous mould, And the pale silver glows with fusile gold: So Pallas his heroic form improves With bloom divine, and like a god he moves!
Argumentative:More high he treads, and issuing forth in state, Radiant before his gazing consort sate.
Argumentative:Canst thou, Penelope, when heaven restores Thy lost Ulysses to his native shores, Canst thou, O cruel!
Argumentative:Fix'd in my soul, as when he sailed to Troy, His image dwells: then haste the bed of joy, Haste, from the bridal bower the bed translate, Fram'd by his hand, and be it dress'd in state!"
Argumentative:Thus speaks the queen, still dubious, with disguise Touch'd at her words, the king with warmth replies "Alas for this!
Argumentative:what mortal strength can move The enormous burden, who but Heaven above?
Argumentative:It mocks the weak attempts of human hands!
Argumentative:But the whole earth must move if Heaven commands Then hear sure evidence, while we display Words seal'd with sacred truth and truth obey: This hand the wonder framed; an olive spread Full in the court its ever verdant head.
Argumentative:While yet he speaks, her powers of life decay; She sickens, trembles, falls, and faints away.
Argumentative:O versed in every, turn of human art, Forgive the weakness of a woman's heart!
Argumentative:The righteous powers, that mortal lot dispose, Decree us to sustain a length of woes.
Argumentative:And from the flower of life the bliss deny To bloom together, fade away, and die.
Argumentative:Men, faithless men, betray Our easy faith, and make our sex their prey: Against the fondness of my heart I strove: 'Twas caution, O my lord!
Argumentative:not want of love.
Argumentative:Like me had Helen fear'd, with wanton charms Ere the fair mischief set two worlds in arms; Ere Greece rose dreadful in the avenging day; Thus had she fear'd, she had not gone astray.
Argumentative:But why these sorrows when my lord arrives?
Argumentative:my own Ulysses lives!
Argumentative:As to the shipwreck'd mariner, the shores Delightful rise, when angry Neptune roars: Then, when the surge in thunder mounts the sky, And gulf'd in crowds at once the sailors die; If one, more happy, while the tempest raves, Outlives the tumult of conflicting waves, All pale, with ooze deform'd, he views the strand, And plunging forth with transport grasps the land: The ravish'd queen with equal rapture glows, Clasps her loved lord, and to his bosom grows.
Argumentative:Beam o'er the eastern hills with streaming light.
Argumentative:But end we here--the night demands repose, Be deck'd the couch!
Argumentative:and peace awhile, my woes!"
Argumentative:To whom the queen: "Thy word we shall obey, And deck the couch; far hence be woes away: Since the just gods, who tread the starry plains, Restore thee safe, since my Ulysses reigns.
Argumentative:But what those perils heaven decrees, impart; Knowledge may grieve, but fear distracts the heart."
Argumentative:To this the king: "Ah, why must I disclose A dreadful story of approaching woes?
Argumentative:Why in this hour of transport wound thy ears, When thou must learn what I must speak with tears?
Argumentative:Unknown to pain, in age resign my breath, When late stern Neptune points the shaft of death; To the dark grave retiring as to rest; My people blessing, by my people bless'd.
Argumentative:Such future scenes the all-righteous powers display By their dread seer, and such my future day."
Argumentative:To whom thus firm of soul: "If ripe for death, And full of days, thou gently yield thy breath; While Heaven a kind release from ills foreshows, Triumph, thou happy victor of thy woes?"
Argumentative:Then how, unharm'd, he pass'd the Syren-coasts, The justling rocks where fierce Charybdis raves, And howling Scylla whirls her thunderous waves, The cave of death!
Argumentative:But now I haste to bless Laertes' eyes With sight of his Ulysses ere he dies; The good old man, to wasting woes a prey, Weeps a sad life in solitude away.
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:aloud he cries; his friends obey, With glittering arms their manly limbs array, And pass the city gate; Ulysses leads the way.
Argumentative:This morning shall unfold The deathful scene, on heroes heroes roll'd.
Argumentative:Thou with thy maids within the palace stay, From all the scene of tumult far away!"
Argumentative:He spoke, and sheathed in arms incessant flies To wake his son, and bid his friends arise.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00026	
Argumentative:Straight to the guardian of the bristly kind He thus began, benevolent of mind: "What guest is he, of such majestic air?
Argumentative:Contact Us WARC
Argumentative:All Rights Reserved.
Argumentative:Thus jovial they; but nought the prince replies; Full on his sire he roll'd his ardent eyes: Impatient straight to flesh his virgin-sword; From the wise chief he waits the deathful word.
Argumentative:That others feeds on planetary schemes, And pays his host with hideous noon-day dreams.
Argumentative:O'er the protracted feast the suitors sit, And aim to wound the prince with pointless wit: Cries one, with scornful leer and mimic voice, "Thy charity we praise, but not thy choice; Why such profusion of indulgence shown To this poor, timorous, toil-detesting drone?
Argumentative:Unguided hence my trembling steps I bend, Far hence, before yon hovering deaths descend; Lest the ripe harvest of revenge begun, I share the doom ye suitors cannot shun."
Argumentative:Yet warn'd in vain, with laughter loud elate The peers reproach the sure divine of Fate; And thus Eurymachus: "The dotard's mind To every sense is lost, to reason blind; Swift from the dome conduct the slave away; Let him in open air behold the day."
Argumentative:Nor gives the sun his golden orb to roll, But universal night usurps the pole!"
Argumentative:with Stygian shade Each destin'd peer impending fates invade; With tears your wan distorted cheeks are drown'd; With sanguine drops the walls are rubied round: Thick swarms the spacious hall with howling ghosts, To people Orcus, and the burning coasts!
Argumentative:In vision wrapp'd, the Hyperesian seer Uprose, and thus divined the vengeance near: "O race to death devote!
Argumentative:A mirthful frenzy seized the fated crowd; The roofs resound with causeless laughter loud; Floating in gore, portentous to survey!
Argumentative:But Pallas clouds with intellectual gloom The suitors' souls, insensate of their doom!
Argumentative:Sage and serene Telemachus replies: " By him at whose behest the thunder flies, And by the name on earth I most revere, By great Ulysses and his woes I swear!
Argumentative:Now press the sovereign dame with warm desire To wed, as wealth or worth her choice inspire: The lord selected to the nuptial joys Far hence will lead the long-contested prize: Whilst in paternal pomp with plenty bless'd, You reign, of this imperial dome possess'd."
Argumentative:Whilst hope prevail'd to see your sire restored, Of right the queen refused a second lord: But who so vain of faith, so blind to fate, To think he still survives to claim the state?
Argumentative:to stop the source of future ill, Assent yourself, and gain the royal will.
Argumentative:your rage restrain From the protected guest, and menial train: And, prince!
Argumentative:A long cessation of discourse ensued, By gentler Agelaus thus renew'd: "A just reproof, ye peers!
Argumentative:The chief indignant grins a ghastly smile; Revenge and scorn within his bosom boil: When thus the prince with pious rage inflamed: "Had not the inglorious wound thy malice aim'd Fall'n guiltless of the mark, my certain spear Had made thee buy the brutal triumph dear: Nor should thy sire a queen his daughter boast; The suitor, now, had vanish'd in a ghost: No more, ye lewd compeers, with lawless power Invade my dome, my herds and flocks devour: For genuine worth, of age mature to know, My grape shall redden, and my harvest grow Or, if each other's wrongs ye still support, With rapes and riot to profane my court; What single arm with numbers can contend?
Argumentative:He said: and of the steer before him placed, That sinewy fragment at Ulysses cast, Where to the pastern-bone, by nerves combined, The well-horn'd foot indissolubly join'd; Which whizzing high, the wall unseemly sign'd.
Argumentative:Observant of the prince's high behest, His menial train attend the stranger-guest; Whom Pallas with unpardoning fury fired, By lordly pride and keen reproach inspired.
Argumentative:Without reply vouchsafed, Antinous ceased: Meanwhile the pomp of festival increased: By heralds rank'd; in marshall'd order move The city tribes, to pleased Apollo's grove: Beneath the verdure of which awful shade, The lunar hecatomb they grateful laid; Partook the sacred feast, and ritual honours paid.
Argumentative:"Be patient, peers!
Argumentative:Awed by the prince, so haughty, brave, and young, Rage gnaw'd the lip, amazement chain'd the tongue.
Argumentative:Your violence and scorn, ye suitors, cease, Lest arms avenge the violated peace."
Argumentative:"Partake, my guest (he cried), without control The social feast, and drain the cheering bowl: Dread not the railer's laugh, nor ruffian's rage; No vulgar roof protects thy honour'd age; This dome a refuge to thy wrongs shall be, From my great sire too soon devolved to me!
Argumentative:Disposed apart, Ulysses shares the treat; A trivet table, and ignobler seat, The prince appoints; but to his sire assigns The tasteful inwards, and nectareous wines.
Argumentative:With fire prepared, they deal the morsels round, Wine, rosy-bright, the brimming goblets crown'd, By sage Eumaeus borne; the purple tide Melanthius from an ample jar supplied: High canisters of bread Philaetius placed; And eager all devour the rich repast.
Argumentative:the sanguinary scheme suspend: Your future thought let sable fate employ; And give the present hour to genial joy."
Argumentative:This omen eyed Amphinomus, who thus presaging cried: "The gods from force and fraud the prince defend; O peers!
Argumentative:Assents Eumaeus to the prayer address'd; And equal ardours fire his loyal breast.
Argumentative:This sacred truth attest, each genial power, Who bless the board, and guard this friendly bower!
Argumentative:His kind protecting hand my youth preferr'd, The regent of his Cephalenian herd; With vast increase beneath my care it spreads: A stately breed!
Argumentative:Oh, grateful for the good his bounty gave, I'll grieve, till sorrow sink me to the grave!
Argumentative:Like thee, poor stranger guest, denied his home, Like thee: in rags obscene decreed to roam!
Argumentative:Ulysses from his state a wanderer still, Upbraids thy power, thy wisdom, or thy will!
Argumentative:The fool of fate, thy manufacture, man, With penury, contempt, repulse, and care, The galling load of life is doom'd to bear.
Argumentative:for ever death to human cries; The tyrant, not the father of the skies!
Argumentative:Then affable he thus the chief address'd, Whilst with pathetic warmth his hand he press'd: "Stranger, may fate a milder aspect show, And spin thy future with a whiter clue!
Argumentative:His lineage and paternal clime declare: Dim through the eclipse of fate, the rays divine Of sovereign state with faded splendour shine.
Argumentative:And goats he brought, the pride of all their race; Imported in a shallop not his own; The dome re-echoed to the mingl'd moan.
Argumentative:A steer ungrateful to the bull's embrace.
Argumentative:Rejoinder to the churl the king disdain'd, But shook his head, and rising wrath restrain'd.
Argumentative:On this high feast the meanest vulgar boast A plenteous board!
Argumentative:Blows have more energy than airy words; These arguments I'll use: nor conscious shame, Nor threats, thy bold intrusion will reclaim.
Argumentative:While thus the chief his woes indignant told, Melanthius, master of the bearded fold, The goodliest goats of all the royal herd Spontaneous to the suitors' feast preferr'd; Two grooms assistant bore the victims bound; With quavering cries the vaulted roofs resound; And to the chief austere aloud began The wretch unfriendly to the race of man: "Here vagrant, still?
Argumentative:No conscious blush, no sense of right, restrains The tides of lust that swell the boiling veins; From vice to vice their appetites are toss'd, All cheaply sated at another's cost!"
Argumentative:the suitor-train Still treat thy worth with lordly dull disdain; Or speaks their deed a bounteous mind humane?"
Argumentative:Magnificent, and blithe, the suitors come.
Argumentative:His cornel javelin poised with regal port, To the sage Greeks convened in Themis' court, Forth-issuing from the dome the prince repair'd; Two dogs of chase, a lion-hearted guard, Behind him sourly stalked.
Argumentative:The wordy vagrant to the dole aspires, And modest worth with noble scorn retires."
Argumentative:Or waits he grieved, His age not honour'd, nor his wants relieved?
Argumentative:His steps impetuous to the portal press'd; And Euryclea thus he there address'd: "Say thou to whom my youth its nurture owes, Was care for due refection and repose Bestow'd the stranger-guest?
Argumentative:Big with their doom denounced in earth and sky, Ulysses' heart dilates with secret joy.
Argumentative:Soon, with consummate joy to crown his prayer, An omen'd voice invades his ravish'd ear.
Argumentative:Loud from a sapphire sky his thunder sounds; With springing hope the hero's heart rebounds.
Argumentative:Whilst lowly thus the chief adoring bows, The pitying god his guardian aid avows.
Argumentative:Vouchsafe the sanction of a sign above."
Argumentative:with heaven to friend, If the long series of my woes shall end; Of human race now rising from repose, Let one a blissful omen here disclose; And, to confirm my faith, propitious Jove!
Argumentative:Thus, whilst Aurora mounts her purple throne, In audible laments she breathes her moan; The sounds assault Ulysses' wakeful ear; Misjudging of the cause, a sudden fear Of his arrival known, the chief alarms; He thinks the queen is rushing to his arms.
Argumentative:When woes the waking sense alone assail, Whilst Night extends her soft oblivious veil, Of other wretches' care the torture ends; No truce the warfare of my heart suspends!
Argumentative:Or thou, Diana, speed Thy shaft, and send me joyful to the dead; To seek my lord among the warrior train, Ere second vows my bridal faith profane.
Argumentative:So, Pandarus, thy hopes, three orphan fair; Were doom'd to wander through the devious air; Thyself untimely, and thy consort died, But four celestials both your cares supplied.
Argumentative:far from human race, Toss'd through the void illimitable space Or if dismounted from the rapid cloud, Me with his whelming wave let Ocean shroud!
Argumentative:speed thy deathful ebon dart, And cure the pangs of this convulsive heart.
Argumentative:Not so the queen; the downy bands of sleep By grief relax'd she waked again to weep: A gloomy pause ensued of dumb despair; Then thus her fate invoked, with fervent prayer "Diana!
Argumentative:In me affianced, fortify thy breast, Though myriads leagued thy rightful claim contest My sure divinity shall bear the shield, And edge thy sword to reap the glorious field.
Argumentative:Lo, Pallas' self descends, Inspires thy counsels, and thy toils attends.
Argumentative:Or if, by Jove's and thy auxiliar aid, They're doom'd to bleed; O say, celestial maid!
Argumentative:Whom, to the gods when suppliant fathers bow They name the standard of their dearest vow."
Argumentative:Thus anchor'd safe on reason's peaceful coast, Tempests of wrath his soul no longer toss'd; Restless his body rolls, to rage resign'd As one who long with pale-eyed famine pined, The savoury cates on glowing embers cast Incessant turns, impatient for repast Ulysses so, from side to side-devolved, In self-debate the suitor's doom resolved When in the form of mortal nymph array'd, From heaven descends the Jove-born martial maid; And'hovering o'er his head in view confess'd, The goddess thus her favourite care address'd: "O thou, of mortals most inured to woes!
Argumentative:Not fiercer woes thy fortitude could foil, When the brave partners of thy ten years' toil Dire Polypheme devour'd; I then was freed By patient prudence from the death decreed."
Argumentative:"Poor suffering heart!
Argumentative:His heart with rage this new dishonour stung, Wavering his thoughts in dubious balance hung: Or instant should he quench the guilty flame With their own blood, and intercept the shame: Or to their lust indulge a last embrace, And let the peers consummate the disgrace Round his swoln heart the murmurous fury rolls, As o'er her young the mother-mastiff growls, And bays the stranger groom: so wrath compress'd, Recoiling, mutter'd thunder in his breast.
Argumentative:As thus pavilion'd in the porch he lay, Scenes of lewd loves his wakeful eyes survey, Whilst to nocturnal joys impure repair, With wanton glee, the prostituted fair.
Argumentative:Then o'er the chief, Eurynome the chaste With duteous care a downy carpet cast: With dire revenge his thoughtful bosom glows, And, ruminating wrath, he scorns repose.
Argumentative:The Odyssey: Book XX - Ancinet-Mythology.com The Odyssey Book XX An ample hide devine Ulysses spread.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00028	
Argumentative:Jack Paul - Board - Waterfront Playhouse Mallory Square I Key West BOX OFFICE (305) 294-5015 Select an Upcoming Event Dead Man's Cell Phone -- Now through February 18 Bottle Cap Fundraiser Dinner & Disco at the Flamingo Diner--February 27 Henry's Bridge Party--February 28 The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee Beer, Bourbon and BBQ Key West Contemporary Dance Company The Look of Love: Carmen Sings Burt Bacharach Home Exchange Key West Mystery Fest Crime Scene Photographer Mysterious Meet & Greet Clue: The Dinner Classic Mystery Movie Behind the Scenes: Mystery Edition "Monk Night" at The Tropic Camp Bravo 2012 Newsletter Signup I Buy Tickets View AllI SubscriptionsI Groups & DiscountsI Box OfficeI Gift CertificatesII ShowsI EventsI Memberships OverviewI Membership LevelsI Buy OnlineI Printable Form (PDF)II NewsI Donations OverviewI Donate OnlineI Housing HeroesII Auditions AuditionsI General InformationII Our People OverviewI ActorsI CreativesI StaffI Board of DirectorsII About OverviewI MissionI HistoryI VolunteerI Seating ChartI DirectionsI Past SeasonsII Venue RentalI Sponsors SponsorsI Partner LinksII ContactI Waterfront Playhouse  Our People  Board  Jack Paul Sat, Feb 11, 2012 Email this page Our People Overview Actors Creatives Staff Board of Directors Board Previous Next 10 of 21 Back to list  Jack Paul Board Member Vice President/Development Jack Paul entered the U.S. Army as a 2nd Lieutenant after graduating from Georgia Tech in 1968.
Argumentative: The most critical task was to work with Congressional members and staffers to explain the FCS program and gain their support.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00048	
Argumentative:Producing some of the best underground urban music in the UK, Bashment, R & B, Hip Hop, Garage, Jazz, Raggae.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00063	
Argumentative:Secret sound universe of 'Tusk' taste on a 'McCartney II' budget.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00071	
Argumentative:boomsonic records strive to bring light to the world thru an eclectic exchange of aural art.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00073	
Argumentative:6 For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and impetuous nation, that march through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling-places that are not theirs.
Argumentative:7 They are terrible and dreadful; their law and their majesty proceed from themselves.
Argumentative:8 Their horses also are swifter than leopards, and are more fierce than the wolves of the desert; and their horsemen spread themselves; yea, their horsemen come from far, they fly as a vulture that hasteth to devour.
Argumentative:9 They come all of them for violence; their faces are set eagerly as the east wind; and they gather captives as the sand.
Argumentative:10 And they scoff at kings, and princes are a derision unto them; they deride every stronghold, for they heap up earth, and take it.
Argumentative:11 Then their spirit doth pass over and transgress, and they become guilty: even they who impute their might unto their god.
Argumentative:O LORD, Thou hast ordained them for judgment, and Thou, O Rock, hast established them for correction.
Argumentative:13 Thou that art of eyes too pure to behold evil, and that canst not look on mischief, wherefore lookest Thou, when they deal treacherously, and holdest Thy peace, when the wicked swalloweth up the man that is more righteous than he; 14 And makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?
Argumentative:15 They take up all of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gather them in their drag; therefore they rejoice and exult.
Argumentative:16 Therefore they sacrifice unto their net, and offer unto their drag; because by them their portion is fat, and their food plenteous.
Argumentative:17 Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare to slay the nations continually?
Argumentative:Habakkuk2 1 I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will look out to see what He will speak by me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved.
Argumentative:' 4 Behold, his soul is puffed up, it is not upright in him; but the righteous shall live by his faith.
Argumentative:5 Yea, moreover, wine is a treacherous dealer; the haughty man abideth not; he who enlargeth his desire as the nether-world, and is as death, and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations, and heapeth unto him all peoples.
Argumentative:and that ladeth himself with many pledges!
Argumentative:8 Because thou hast spoiled many nations, all the remnant of the peoples shall spoil thee; because of men's blood, and for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all that dwell therein.
Argumentative:9 Woe to him that gaineth evil gains for his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the power of evil!
Argumentative:10 Thou hast devised shame to thy house, by cutting off many peoples, and hast forfeited thy life.
Argumentative:4 Therefore the law is slacked, and right doth never go forth; for the wicked doth beset the righteous; therefore right goeth forth perverted.
Argumentative:11 For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it.
Argumentative:12 Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and establisheth a city by iniquity!
Argumentative:13 Behold, is it not of HaShem of hosts that the peoples labour for the fire, and the nations weary themselves for vanity?
Argumentative:15 Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, that puttest thy venom thereto, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look on their nakedness!
Argumentative:17 For the violence done to Lebanon shall cover thee, and the destruction of the beasts, which made them afraid; because of men's blood, and for the violence done to the land, to the city and to all that dwell therein.
Argumentative:' Can this teach?
Argumentative:so that there is strife, and contention ariseth.
Argumentative:Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in the midst of it.
Argumentative:Habakkuk3 1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet.
Argumentative:His glory covereth the heavens, and the earth is full of His praise.
Argumentative:5 Before him goeth the pestilence, and fiery bolts go forth at His feet.
Argumentative:6 He standeth, and shaketh the earth, He beholdeth, and maketh the nations to tremble; and the everlasting mountains are dashed in pieces, the ancient hills do bow; His goings are as of old.
Argumentative:7 I see the tents of Cushan in affliction; the curtains of the land of Midian do tremble.
Argumentative:9 Thy bow is made quite bare; sworn are the rods of the word.
Argumentative:10 The mountains have seen Thee, and they tremble; the tempest of waters floweth over; the deep uttereth its voice, and lifteth up its hands on high.
Argumentative:12 Thou marchest through the earth in indignation, Thou threshest the nations in anger.
Argumentative:14 Thou hast stricken through with his own rods the head of his rulers, that come as a whirlwind to scatter me; whose rejoicing is as to devour the poor secretly.
Argumentative:17 For though the fig-tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no food; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls; 18 Yet I will rejoice in HaShem, I will exult in the G-d of my salvation.
Argumentative:19 G-d, HaShem, is my strength, and He maketh my feet like hinds' feet, and He maketh me to walk upon my high places.
Argumentative:top of page Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter See us on YouTube Recommend This Page To A Friend Take the Israeli Opinion Poll!
Argumentative:And why are spoiling and violence before me?
Argumentative:3 Why dost Thou show me iniquity, and beholdest mischief?
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Chabakuk - Habakkuk Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Chabakuk - Habakkuk Treisar - The Minor Prophets Text: Habakkuk1 | Habakkuk2 | Habakkuk3 Habakkuk1 1 THE BURDEN which Habakkuk the prophet did see.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00075	
Argumentative:40 And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers; and had many sons, and sons' sons, a hundred and fifty.
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Divrei Yamim A - 1 Chronicles Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Divrei Yamim A - 1 Chronicles Ketuvim - The Writings Text: 1_Chronicles1 | 1_Chronicles2 | 1_Chronicles3 | 1_Chronicles4 | 1_Chronicles5 | 1_Chronicles6 | 1_Chronicles7 | 1_Chronicles8 | 1_Chronicles9 | 1_Chronicles10 | 1_Chronicles11 | 1_Chronicles12 | 1_Chronicles13 | 1_Chronicles14 | 1_Chronicles15 | 1_Chronicles16 | 1_Chronicles17 | 1_Chronicles18 | 1_Chronicles19 | 1_Chronicles20 | 1_Chronicles21 | 1_Chronicles22 | 1_Chronicles23 | 1_Chronicles24 | 1_Chronicles25 | 1_Chronicles26 | 1_Chronicles27 | 1_Chronicles28 | 1_Chronicles29 1_Chronicles1 1 ADAM, SETH, Enosh; 2 Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared; 3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech; 4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Argumentative:11 And Mizraim begot Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, 12 and Pathrusim, and Casluhim--from whence came the Philistines--and Caphtorim.
Argumentative:24 Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah; 25 Eber, Peleg, Reu; 26 Serug, Nahor, Terah; 27 Abram--the same is Abraham.
Argumentative:39 And the sons of Lotan: Hori, and Homam; and Timna was Lotan's sister.
Argumentative:43 Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before their reigned any king over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
Argumentative:50 And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
Argumentative:And Er, Judah's first-born, was wicked in the sight of HaShem; and He slew him.
Argumentative:16 And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail.
Argumentative:And the sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three.
Argumentative:17 And Abigail bore Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
Argumentative:18 And Caleb the son of Hezron begot children of Azubah his wife--and of Jerioth--and these were her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
Argumentative:23 And Geshur and Aram took Havvoth-jair from them, with Kenath, and the villages thereof, even threescore cities.
Argumentative:All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.
Argumentative:24 And after that Hezron was dead in Caleb-ephrath, then Abiah Hezron's wife bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.
Argumentative:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters.
Argumentative:And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.
Argumentative:46 And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begot Gazez.
Argumentative:48 Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
Argumentative:The sons of Hur the first-born of Ephrath: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim; 51 Salma the father of Beth-lehem, Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
Argumentative:52 And Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, and half of the Menuhoth.
Argumentative:53 And the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zorathites, and the Eshtaolites.
Argumentative:54 The sons of Salma: Beth-lehem, and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
Argumentative:55 And the families of scribes that dwelt at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, the Sucathites.
Argumentative:9 All these were the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister.
Argumentative:10 And Solomon's son was Rehoboam; Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son; 11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son; 12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son; 13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son; 14 Amon his son, Josiah his son.
Argumentative:16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
Argumentative:17 And the sons of Jeconiah--the same is Assir--Shealtiel his son; 18 and Malchiram, and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles4 1 The sons of Judah: Perez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
Argumentative:5 And Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
Argumentative:These were the sons of Naarah.
Argumentative:12 And Eshton begot Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash.
Argumentative:14 And Meonothai begot Ophrah; and Seraiah begot Joab the father of Ge-harashim; for they were craftsmen.
Argumentative:And she bore Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa-- 18 and his wife Hajehudijah bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah--and these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh whom Mered took.
Argumentative:And the records are ancient.
Argumentative:23 These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plantations and hedges; there they dwelt occupied in the king's work.
Argumentative:24 The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, and Jamim, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul; 25 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
Argumentative:26 And the sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
Argumentative:These were their habitations, and they have their genealogy.
Argumentative:39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.
Argumentative:40 And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they that dwelt there aforetime were of Ham.
Argumentative:42 And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles5 1 And the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel--for he was the first-born; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father's couch, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, yet not so that he was to be reckoned in the genealogy as first-born.
Argumentative:2 For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came he that is the prince; but the birthright was Joseph's-- 3 the sons of Reuben the first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
Argumentative:4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son; 5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son; 6 Beerah his son, whom Tillegath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away captive; he was prince of the Reubenites.
Argumentative:10 And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand; and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the land east of Gilead.
Argumentative:20 And they were helped against them, and the Hagrites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them; for they cried to G-d in the battle, and He was entreated of them, because they put their trust in Him.
Argumentative:21 And they took away their cattle: of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand; and of souls of men a hundred thousand.
Argumentative:24 And these were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.
Argumentative:25 And they broke faith with the G-d of their fathers, and went astray after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom G-d destroyed before them.
Argumentative:And the sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Argumentative:And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers' houses.
Argumentative:All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles7 1 And of the sons of Issachar: Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.
Argumentative:2 And the sons of Tola: Uzzi and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valour according to their generations, even of Tola; their number in the days of David was two and twenty thousand and six hundred.
Argumentative:3 And the sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah; and the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Isshiah, five; all of them chief men.
Argumentative:4 And with them, by their generations, after their fathers' houses, were bands of the host for war, six and thirty thousand; for they had many wives and sons.
Argumentative:5 And their brethren among all the families of Issachar, mighty men of valour, reckoned in all by genealogy, were fourscore and seven thousand.
Argumentative:9 And they were reckoned by genealogy, after their generations, heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valour, twenty thousand and two hundred.
Argumentative:11 All these were sons of Jediael, even heads of their fathers' houses, mighty men of valour, seventeen thousand and two hundred, that were able to go forth in the host for war.
Argumentative:12 Shuppim also, and Huppim, the sons of Ir, Hushim, the son of another.
Argumentative:14 The sons of Manasseh: Asriel, whom his wife bore--his concubine the Aramitess bore Machir the father of Gilead; 15 and Machir took a wife of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maacah--and the name of the second was Zelophehad; and Zelophehad had daughters.
Argumentative:18 And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ish-hod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.
Argumentative:20 And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah--and Bered was his son, and Tahath his son, and Eleadah his son, and Tahath his son, 21 and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son--and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath that were born in the land slew, because they came down to take away their cattle.
Argumentative:24 And his daughter was Sheerah, who built Beth-horon the nether and the upper, and Uzzen-sheerah.
Argumentative:25 And Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son; 26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son; 27 Nun his son, Joshua his son.
Argumentative:In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.
Argumentative:32 And Heber begot Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.
Argumentative:40 All these were the children of Asher, heads of the fathers' houses, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes.
Argumentative:And the number of them reckoned by genealogy for service in war was twenty and six thousand men.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles8 1 And Benjamin begot Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third; 2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
Argumentative:6 And these are the sons of Ehud--these are the heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried captive to Manahath; 7 and Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, were they that carried them captive--and he begot Uzza, and Ahihud.
Argumentative:These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
Argumentative:26 And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah; 27 and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri, were the sons of Jeroham.
Argumentative:28 These were heads of fathers' houses throughout their generations, chief men; these dwelt in Jerusalem.
Argumentative:29 And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon ,Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah; 30 and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab; 31 and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher.
Argumentative:And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
Argumentative:39 And the sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
Argumentative:All these were of the sons of Benjamin.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles9 1 So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel; and Judah was carried away captive to Babylon because of their transgression.
Argumentative:5 And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the first-born and his sons.
Argumentative:All these men were heads of fathers' houses by their fathers' houses.
Argumentative:17 And the porters: Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brother Shallum the chief; 18 who hitherto waited in the king's gate eastward; they were the porters for the camp of the children of Levi.
Argumentative:21 Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of the tent of meeting.
Argumentative:22 All these that were chosen to be porters in the gates were two hundred and twelve.
Argumentative:23 So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the house of HaShem, even the house of the Tent, by wards.
Argumentative:25 And their brethren, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them; 26 for the four chief porters were in a set office.
Argumentative:These were the Levites.
Argumentative:28 And certain of them had charge of the vessels of service; for by tale were they brought in and by tale were they taken out.
Argumentative:31 And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that were baked on griddles.
Argumentative:32 And some of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the showbread, to prepare it every sabbath.
Argumentative:33 And these are the singers, heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, who dwelt in the chambers and were free from other service; for they were employed in their work day and night.
Argumentative:34 These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, by their generations, chief men; these dwelt at Jerusalem.
Argumentative:35 And in Gibeon there dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, whose wife's name was Maacah; 36 and his first-born son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab; 37 and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
Argumentative:And they also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against their brethren.
Argumentative:41 And the sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Taharea ,and Ahaz.
Argumentative:43 And Moza begot Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
Argumentative:1_Chronicles10 1 Now the Philistines
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00077	
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Hoshea - Hosea Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Hoshea - Hosea Treisar - The Minor Prophets Text: Hosea1 | Hosea2 | Hosea3 | Hosea4 | Hosea5 | Hosea6 | Hosea7 | Hosea8 | Hosea9 | Hosea10 | Hosea11 | Hosea12 | Hosea13 | Hosea14 Hosea1 1 THE WORD of HaShem that came unto Hosea the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
Argumentative:4 And HaShem said unto him: 'Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will visit the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.
Argumentative:' 4 For the children of Israel shall sit solitary many days without king, and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without pillar, and without ephod or teraphim; 5 afterward shall the children of Israel return, and seek HaShem their G-d, and David their king; and shall come trembling unto HaShem and to His goodness in the end of days. Hosea4 1 Hear the word of HaShem, ye children of Israel!
Argumentative:for HaShem hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of G-d in the land.
Argumentative:2 Swearing and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery!
Argumentative:they break all bounds, and blood toucheth blood.
Argumentative:3 Therefore doth the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein doth languish, with the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also are taken away.
Argumentative:4 Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for thy people are as they that strive with the priest.
Argumentative:5 Therefore shalt thou stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with thee in the night; and I will destroy thy mother.
Argumentative:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to Me; seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy G-d, I also will forget thy children.
Argumentative:7 The more they were increased, the more they sinned against Me; I will change their glory into shame.
Argumentative:8 They feed on the sin of My people, and set their heart on their iniquity.
Argumentative:9 And it is like people, like priest; and I will punish him for his ways, and will recompense him his doings.
Argumentative:10 And they shall eat, and not have enough, they shall commit harlotry, and shall not increase; because they have left off to take heed to HaShem.
Argumentative:12 My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declareth unto them; for the spirit of harlotry hath caused them to err, and they have gone astray from under their G-d. 13 They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and offer upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow thereof is good; therefore your daughters commit harlotry, and your daughters-in-law commit adultery.
Argumentative:14 I will not punish your daughters when they commit harlotry, nor your daughters-in-law when they commit adultery; for they themselves consort with lewd women, and they sacrifice with harlots; and the people that is without understanding is distraught.
Argumentative:' 16 For Israel is stubborn like a stubborn heifer; now shall HaShem feed them as a lamb in a large place?
Argumentative:17 Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone.
Argumentative:18 When their carouse is over, they take to harlotry; her rulers deeply love dishonour.
Argumentative:19 The wind hath bound her up in her skirts; and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
Argumentative:2 And they that fall away are gone deep in making slaughter; and I am rejected of them all.
Argumentative:3 I, even I, know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from Me; for now, O Ephraim, thou hast committed harlotry, Israel is defiled.
Argumentative:4 Their doings will not suffer them to return unto their G-d; for the spirit of harlotry is within them, and they know not HaShem.
Argumentative:5 But the pride of Israel shall testify to his face; and Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity, Judah also shall stumble with them.
Argumentative:6 With their flocks and with their herds they shall go to seek HaShem, but they shall not find Him; He hath withdrawn Himself from them.
Argumentative:10 The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark; I will pour out My wrath upon them like water.
Argumentative:11 Oppressed is Ephraim, crushed in his right; because he willingly walked after filth.
Argumentative:13 And when Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound, Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to King Contentious; but he is not able to heal you, neither shall he cure you of your wound.
Argumentative:15 I will go and return to My place, till they acknowledge their guilt, and seek My face; in their trouble they will seek Me earnestly: Hosea6 1 'Come, and let us return unto HaShem; for He hath torn, and He will heal us, He hath smitten, and He will bind us up.
Argumentative:3 And let us know, eagerly strive to know HaShem, His going forth is sure as the morning; and He shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter rain that watereth the earth.
Argumentative:for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the dew that early passeth away.
Argumentative:7 But they like men have transgressed the covenant; there have they dealt treacherously against Me.
Argumentative:8 Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, it is covered with footprints of blood.
Argumentative:9 And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so doth the company of priests; they murder in the way toward Shechem; yea, they commit enormity.
Argumentative:10 In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing; there harlotry is found in Ephraim, Israel is defiled.
Argumentative:When I would turn the captivity of My people, Hosea7 1 when I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria, for they commit falsehood; and the thief entereth in, and the troop of robbers maketh a raid without.
Argumentative:2 And let them not say to their heart--I remember all their wickedness; now their own doings have beset them about, they are before My face.
Argumentative:3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.
Argumentative:4 They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who ceaseth to stir from the kneading of the dough until it be leavened.
Argumentative:5 On the day of our king the princes make him sick with the heat of wine, he stretcheth out his hand with scorners.
Argumentative:6 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait; their baker sleepeth all the night, in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.
Argumentative:7 They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen, there is none among them that calleth unto Me.
Argumentative:8 Ephraim, he mixeth himself with the peoples; Ephraim is become a cake not turned.
Argumentative:9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not; yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth it not.
Argumentative:for they have strayed from Me; Destruction unto them!
Argumentative:for they have transgressed against Me; Shall I then redeem them, seeing they have spoken lies against Me?
Argumentative:14 And they have not cried unto Me with their heart, though they wail upon their beds; they assemble themselves for corn and wine, they rebel against Me.
Argumentative:16 They return, but not upwards; they are become like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue; this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.
Argumentative:Hosea8 1 Set the horn to thy mouth.
Argumentative:As a vulture he cometh against the house of HaShem; because they have transgressed My covenant, and trespassed against My law.
Argumentative:3 Israel hath cast off that which is good; the enemy shall pursue him.
Argumentative:4 They have set up kings, but not from Me, they have made princes, and I knew it not; of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off.
Argumentative:5 Thy calf, O Samaria, is cast off; Mine anger is kindled against them; how long will it be ere they attain to innocency?
Argumentative:7 For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind; it hath no stalk, the bud that shall yield no meal; if so be it yield, strangers shall swallow it up.
Argumentative:8 Israel is swallowed up; now are they become among the nations as a vessel wherein is no value.
Argumentative:9 For they are gone up to Assyria, like a wild ass alone by himself; Ephraim hath hired lovers.
Argumentative:12 Though I write for him never so many things of My Law, they are accounted as a stranger's.
Argumentative:13 As for the sacrifices that are made by fire unto Me, let them sacrifice flesh and eat it, for HaShem accepteth them not.
Argumentative:Now will He remember their iniquity, and punish their sins; they shall return to Egypt.
Argumentative:Hosea9 1 Rejoice not, O Israel, unto exultation, like the peoples, for thou hast gone astray from thy G-d, thou hast loved a harlot's hire upon every corn-floor.
Argumentative:2 The threshing-floor and the wine-press shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her.
Argumentative:3 They shall not dwell in HaShem'S land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
Argumentative:4 They shall not pour out wine-offerings to HaShem, neither shall they be pleasing unto Him; their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners, all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their appetite, it shall not come into the house of HaShem.
Argumentative:6 For, lo, they are gone away from destruction, yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their precious treasures of silver, nettles shall possess them, thorns shall be in their tents.
Argumentative:7 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come, Israel shall know it.
Argumentative:The prophet is a fool, the man of the spirit is mad!
Argumentative:8 Ephraim is a watchman with my G-d; as for the prophet, a fowler's snare is in all his ways, and enmity in the house of his G-d. 9 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah; He will remember their iniquity, He will punish their sins.
Argumentative:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird; there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception.
Argumentative:14 Give them, O LORD, whatsoever Thou wilt give; give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
Argumentative:15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal, for there I hated them; because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of My house; I will love them no more, all their princes are rebellious.
Argumentative:16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit; yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb.
Argumentative:17 My G-d will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto Him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.
Argumentative:Hosea10 1 Israel was a luxuriant vine, which put forth fruit freely: as his fruit increased, he increased his altars; the more goodly his land was, the more goodly were his pillars.
Argumentative:2 Their heart is divided; now shall they bear their guilt; He will break down their altars, He will spoil their pillars.
Argumentative:' 4 They speak words, they swear falsely, they make covenants; thus judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.
Argumentative:5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in dread for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof shall tremble for it, for its glory, because it is departed from it.
Argumentative:6 It also shall be carried unto Assyria, for a present to King Contentious; Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel.
Argumentative:' 9 From the days of Gibeah thou hast sinned, O Israel; there they stood; no battle was to overtake them in Gibeah, nor the children of arrogancy.
Argumentative:10 When it is My desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are yoked to their two rings.
Argumentative:11 And Ephraim is a heifer well broken, that loveth to thresh, and I have passed over upon her fair neck; I will make Ephraim to ride, Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods.
Argumentative:12 Sow to yourselves according to righteousness, reap according to mercy, break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek HaShem, till He come and cause righteousness to rain upon you.
Argumentative:13 Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity, ye have eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men.
Argumentative:14 Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy hosts, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Beth-arbel in the day of battle; the mother was dashed in pieces with her children.
Argumentative:15 So hath Beth-el done unto you because of your great wickedness; at daybreak is the king of Israel utterly cut off.
Argumentative:2 The more they called them, the more they went from them; they sacrificed unto the Baalim, and offered to graven images.
Argumentative:5 He shall not return into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his king, because they refused to return.
Argumentative:6 And the sword shall fall upon his cities, and shall consume his bars, and devour them, because of their own counsels.
Argumentative:7 And My people are in suspense about returning to Me; and though they call them upwards, none at all will lift himself up.
Argumentative:10 They shall walk after HaShem, who shall roar like a lion; for He shall roar, and the children shall come trembling from the west.
Argumentative:He loveth to oppress.
Argumentative:Hosea13 1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but when he became guilty through Baal, he died.
Argumentative:2 And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, according to their own understanding, even idols, all of them the work of the craftsmen; of them they say: 'They that sacrifice men kiss calves.
Argumentative:' 3 Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the dew that early passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the wind out of the threshing-floor, and as the smoke out of the window.
Argumentative:5 I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.
Argumentative:6 When they were fed, they became full, they were filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten Me.
Argumentative:9 It is thy destruction, O Israel, that thou art against Me, against thy help.
Argumentative:and thy judges, of whom thou saidst: 'Give me a king and princes!
Argumentative:13 The throes of a travailing woman shall come upon him; he is an unwise son; for it is time he should not tarry in the place of the breaking forth of children.
Argumentative:14 Shall I ransom them from the power of the nether-world?
Argumentative:Ho, thy plagues, O death!
Argumentative:Ho, thy destruction, O netherworld!
Argumentative:15 For though he be fruitful among the reed-plants, an east wind shall come, the wind of HaShem coming up from the wilderness, and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up; he shall spoil the treasure of all precious vessels.
Argumentative:For the ways of HaShem are right, and the just do walk in them; but transgressors do stumble therein.
Argumentative:top of page Find us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter See us on YouTube Recommend This Page To A Friend Take the Israeli Opinion Poll!
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00079	
Argumentative:21 The lips of the righteous feed many; but the foolish die for want of understanding.
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Mishlei - Proverbs Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Mishlei - Proverbs Ketuvim - The Writings Text: Proverbs1 | Proverbs2 | Proverbs3 | Proverbs4 | Proverbs5 | Proverbs6 | Proverbs7 | Proverbs8 | Proverbs9 | Proverbs10 | Proverbs11 | Proverbs12 | Proverbs13 | Proverbs14 | Proverbs15 | Proverbs16 | Proverbs17 | Proverbs18 | Proverbs19 | Proverbs20 | Proverbs21 | Proverbs22 | Proverbs23 | Proverbs24 | Proverbs25 | Proverbs26 | Proverbs27 | Proverbs28 | Proverbs29 | Proverbs30 | Proverbs31 Proverbs1 1 THE PROVERBS of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; 2 To know wisdom and instruction; to comprehend the words of understanding; 3 To receive the discipline of wisdom, justice, and right, and equity; 4 To give prudence to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion; 5 That the wise man may hear, and increase in learning, and the man of understanding may attain unto wise counsels; 6 To understand a proverb, and a figure; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.
Argumentative:11 If they say: 'Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us lurk for the innocent without cause; 12 Let us swallow them up alive as the grave, and whole, as those that go down into the pit; 13 We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil; 14 Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse'-- 15 My son, walk not thou in the way with them, restrain thy foot from their path; 16 For their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood.
Argumentative:17 For in vain the net is spread in the eyes of any bird; 18 And these lie in wait for their own blood, they lurk for their own lives.
Argumentative:19 So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; it taketh away the life of the owners thereof.
Argumentative:And how long will scorners delight them in scorning, and fools hate knowledge?
Argumentative:29 For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of HaShem; 30 They would none of my counsel, they despised all my reproof.
Argumentative:31 Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.
Argumentative:32 For the waywardness of the thoughtless shall slay them, and the confidence of fools shall destroy them.
Argumentative:' Proverbs2 1 My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and lay up my commandments with thee; 2 So that thou make thine ear attend unto wisdom, and thy heart incline to discernment; 3 Yea, if thou call for understanding, and lift up thy voice for discernment; 4 If thou seek her as silver, and search for her as for hid treasures; 5 Then shalt thou understand the fear of HaShem, and find the knowledge of G-d. 6 For HaShem giveth wisdom, out of His mouth cometh knowledge and discernment; 7 He layeth up sound wisdom for the upright, He is a shield to them that walk in integrity; 8 That He may guard the paths of justice, and preserve the way of His godly ones.
Argumentative:9 Then shalt thou understand righteousness and justice, and equity, yea, every good path.
Argumentative:21 For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the whole-hearted shall remain in it.
Argumentative:22 But the wicked shall be cut off from the land, and the faithless shall be plucked up out of it.
Argumentative:3 Let not kindness and truth forsake thee; bind them about thy neck, write them upon the table of thy heart; 4 So shalt thou find grace and good favour in the sight of G-d and man.
Argumentative:5 Trust in HaShem with all thy heart, and lean not upon thine own understanding.
Argumentative:6 In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct thy paths.
Argumentative:7 Be not wise in thine own eyes; fear HaShem, and depart from evil; 8 It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.
Argumentative:9 Honour HaShem with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thine increase; 10 So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy vats shall overflow with new wine.
Argumentative:11 My son, despise not the chastening of HaShem, neither spurn thou His correction; 12 For whom HaShem loveth He correcteth, even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
Argumentative:13 Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that obtaineth understanding.
Argumentative:14 For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.
Argumentative:15 She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.
Argumentative:18 She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her, and happy is every one that holdest her fast.
Argumentative:21 My son, let not them depart from thine eyes; keep sound wisdom and discretion; 22 So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.
Argumentative:23 Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, and thou shalt not dash thy foot.
Argumentative:25 Be not afraid of sudden terror, neither of the destruction of the wicked, when it cometh; 26 For HaShem will be thy confidence, and will keep thy foot from being caught.
Argumentative:27 Withhold not good from him to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it.
Argumentative:29 Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.
Argumentative:30 Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.
Argumentative:31 Envy thou not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways.
Argumentative:32 For the perverse is an abomination to HaShem; but His counsel is with the upright.
Argumentative:33 The curse of HaShem is in the house of the wicked; but He blesseth the habitation of the righteous.
Argumentative:34 If it concerneth the scorners, He scorneth them, but unto the humble He giveth grace.
Argumentative:35 The wise shall inherit honour; but as for the fools, they carry away shame.
Argumentative:Proverbs4 1 Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.
Argumentative:12 When thou goest, thy step shall not be straitened; and if thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.
Argumentative:14 Enter not into the path of the wicked, and walk not in the way of evil men.
Argumentative:16 For they sleep not, except they have done evil; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.
Argumentative:18 But the path of the righteous is as the light of dawn, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.
Argumentative:19 The way of the wicked is as darkness; they know not at what they stumble.
Argumentative:21 Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thy heart.
Argumentative:22 For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.
Argumentative:23 Above all that thou guardest keep thy heart; for out of it are the issues of life.
Argumentative:26 Make plain the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.
Argumentative:' 15 Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well.
Argumentative:18 Let thy fountain be blessed; and have joy of the wife of thy youth.
Argumentative:20 Why then wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of an alien?
Argumentative:21 For the ways of man are before the eyes of HaShem, and He maketh even all his paths.
Argumentative:22 His own iniquities shall ensnare the wicked, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sin.
Argumentative:23 He shall die for lack of instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall reel.
Argumentative:Proverbs6 1 My son, if thou art become surety for thy neighbour, if thou hast struck thy hands for a stranger-- 2 Thou art snared by the words of thy mouth, thou art caught by the words of thy mouth-- 3 Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, seeing thou art come into the hand of thy neighbour; go, humble thyself, and urge thy neighbour.
Argumentative:4 Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.
Argumentative:5 Deliver thyself as a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Argumentative:When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?
Argumentative:10 'Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep'-- 11 So shall thy poverty come as a runner, and thy want as an armed man.
Argumentative:12 A base person, a man of iniquity, is he that walketh with a froward mouth; 13 That winketh with his eyes, that scrapeth with his feet, that pointeth with his fingers; 14 Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth evil continually; he soweth discord.
Argumentative:16 There are six things which HaShem hateth, yea, seven which are an abomination unto Him: 17 Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood; 18 A heart that deviseth wicked thoughts, feet that are swift in running to evil; 19 A false witness that breatheth out lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.
Argumentative:20 My son, keep the commandment of thy father, and forsake not the teaching of thy mother; 21 Bind them continually upon thy heart, tie them about thy neck.
Argumentative:22 When thou walkest, it shall lead thee, when thou liest down, it shall watch over thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.
Argumentative:23 For the commandment is a lamp, and the teaching is light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life; 24 To keep thee from the evil woman, from the smoothness of the alien tongue.
Argumentative:26 For on account of a harlot a man is brought to a loaf of bread, but the adulteress hunteth for the precious life.
Argumentative:27 Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
Argumentative:28 Or can one walk upon hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?
Argumentative:29 So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not go unpunished.
Argumentative:30 Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry; 31 But if he be found, he must restore sevenfold, he must give all the substance of his house.
Argumentative:32 He that committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding; he doeth it that would destroy his own soul.
Argumentative:33 Wounds and dishonour shall he get, and his reproach shall not be wiped away.
Argumentative:34 For jealousy is the rage of a man, and he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
Argumentative:2 Keep my commandments and live, and my teaching as the apple of thine eye.
Argumentative:3 Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thy heart.
Argumentative:18 Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning; let us solace ourselves with loves.
Argumentative:19 For my husband is not at home, he is gone a long journey; 20 He hath taken the bag of money with him; he will come home at the full moon.
Argumentative:22 He goeth after her straightway, as an ox that goeth to the slaughter, or as one in fetters to the correction of the fool; 23 Till an arrow strike through his liver; as a bird hasteneth to the snare-- and knoweth not that it is at the cost of his life.
Argumentative:27 Her house is the way to the nether-world, going down to the chambers of death.
Argumentative:5 O ye thoughtless, understand prudence, and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart.
Argumentative:6 Hear, for I will speak excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be right things.
Argumentative:8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness, there is nothing perverse or crooked in them.
Argumentative:9 They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.
Argumentative:10 Receive my instruction, and not silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold.
Argumentative:11 For wisdom is better than rubies, and all things desirable are not to be compared unto her.
Argumentative:12 I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of devices.
Argumentative:15 By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.
Argumentative:16 By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.
Argumentative:18 Riches and honour are with me; yea, enduring riches and righteousness.
Argumentative:19 My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my produce than choice silver.
Argumentative:20 I walk in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice; 21 That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance, and that I may fill their treasuries.
Argumentative:22 HaShem made me as the beginning of His way, the first of His works of old.
Argumentative:24 When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.
Argumentative:27 When He established the heavens, I was there; when He set a circle upon the face of the deep, 28 When He made firm the skies above, when the fountains of the deep showed their might, 29 When He gave to the sea His decree, that the waters should not transgress His commandment, when He appointed the foundations of the earth; 30 Then I was by Him, as a nursling; and I was daily all delight, playing always before Him, 31 Playing in His habitable earth, and my delights are with the sons of men.
Argumentative:32 Now therefore, ye children, hearken unto me; for happy are they that keep my ways.
Argumentative:34 Happy is the man that hearkeneth to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
Argumentative:35 For whoso findeth me findeth life, and obtaineth favour of HaShem.
Argumentative:36 But he that misseth me wrongeth his own soul; all they that hate me love death.
Argumentative:6 Forsake all thoughtlessness, and live; and walk in the way of understanding.
Argumentative:7 He that correcteth a scorner getteth to himself shame, and he that reproveth a wicked man, it becometh unto him a blot.
Argumentative:8 Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee; reprove a wise man, and he will love thee.
Argumentative:9 Give to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser; teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning.
Argumentative:' 13 The woman Folly is riotous; she is thoughtless, and knoweth nothing.
Argumentative:' 18 But he knoweth not that the shades are there; that her guests are in the depths of the nether-world.
Argumentative:Proverbs10 1 The proverbs of Solomon.
Argumentative:A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish son is the grief of his mother.
Argumentative:2 Treasures of wickedness profit nothing; but righteousness delivereth from death.
Argumentative:3 HaShem will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish; but He thrusteth away the desire of the wicked.
Argumentative:4 He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand; but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
Argumentative:5 A wise son gathereth in summer; but a son that doeth shamefully sleepeth in harvest.
Argumentative:6 Blessings are upon the head of the righteous; but the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence.
Argumentative:8 The wise in heart will receive commandments; but a prating fool shall fall.
Argumentative:9 He that walketh uprightly walketh securely; but he that perverteth his ways shall be found out.
Argumentative:10 He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow; and a prating fool shall fall.
Argumentative:11 The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life; but the mouth of the wicked concealeth violence.
Argumentative:12 Hatred stirreth up strifes; but love covereth all transgressions.
Argumentative:13 In the lips of him that hath discernment wisdom is found; but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.
Argumentative:15 The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the ruin of the poor is their poverty.
Argumentative:16 The wages of the righteous is life; the increase of the wicked is sin.
Argumentative:17 He is in the way of life that heedeth instruction; but he that forsaketh reproof erreth.
Argumentative:18 He that hideth hatred is of lying lips; and he that uttereth a slander is a fool.
Argumentative:19 In the multitude of words there wanteth not transgression; but he that refraineth his lips is wise.
Argumentative:20 The tongue of the righteous is as choice silver; the heart of the wicked is little worth.
Argumentative:22 The blessing of HaShem, it maketh rich, and toil addeth nothing thereto.
Argumentative:23 It is as sport to a fool to do wickedness, and so is wisdom to a man of discernment.
Argumentative:24 The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him; and the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
Argumentative:25 When the whirlwind passeth, the wicked is no more; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
Argumentative:26 As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.
Argumentative:28 The hope of the righteous is gladness; but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
Argumentative:30 The righteous shall never be moved; but the wicked shall not inhabit the land.
Argumentative:31 The mouth of the righteous buddeth with wisdom; but the froward tongue shall be cut off.
Argumentative:32 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable; but the mouth of the wicked is all frowardness.
Argumentative:Proverbs11 1 A false balance is an abomination to HaShem; but a perfect weight is His delight.
Argumentative:2 When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.
Argumentative:3 The integrity of the upright shall guide them; but the perverseness of the faithless shall destroy them.
Argumentative:4 Riches profit not in the day of wrath; but righteousness delivereth from death.
Argumentative:5 The righteousness of the sincere shall make straight his way; but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.
Argumentative:6 The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them; but the faithless shall be trapped in their own crafty device.
Argumentative:7 When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish, and the hope of strength perisheth.
Argumentative:8 The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
Argumentative:9 With his mouth the impious man destroyeth his neighbour; but through knowledge shall the righteous be delivered.
Argumentative:10 When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth; and when the wicked perish, there is joy.
Argumentative:11 By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted; but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
Argumentative:13 He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets; but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth a matter.
Argumentative:14 Where no wise direction is, a people falleth; but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
Argumentative:15 He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it; but he that hateth them that strike hands is secure.
Argumentative:16 A gracious woman obtaineth honour; and strong men obtain riches.
Argumentative:17 The merciful man doeth good to his own soul; but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.
Argumentative:18 The wicked earneth deceitful wages; but he that soweth righteousness hath a sure reward.
Argumentative:19 Stedfast righteousness tendeth to life; but he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.
Argumentative:20 They that are perverse in heart are an abomination to HaShem; but such as are upright in their way are His delight.
Argumentative:the evil man shall not be unpunished; but the seed of the righteous shall escape.
Argumentative:22 As a ring of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman that turneth aside from discretion.
Argumentative:23 The desire of the righteous is only good; but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
Argumentative:27 He that diligently seeketh good seeketh favour; but he that searcheth for evil, it shall come unto him.
Argumentative:28 He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as foliage.
Argumentative:29 He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind; and the foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.
Argumentative:30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that is wise winneth souls.
Argumentative:31 Behold, the righteous shall be requited in the earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner!
Argumentative:Proverbs12 1 Whoso loveth knowledge loveth correction; but he that is brutish hateth reproof.
Argumentative:2 A good man shall obtain favour of HaShem; but a man of wicked devices will He condemn.
Argumentative:3 A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous shall never be moved.
Argumentative:5 The thoughts of the righteous are right; but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
Argumentative:7 The wicked are overthrown, and are not; but the house of the righteous shall stand.
Argumentative:8 A man shall be commended according to his intelligence; but he that is of a distorted understanding shall be despised.
Argumentative:9 Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that playeth the man of rank, and lacketh bread.
Argumentative:10 A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
Argumentative:11 He that tilleth his ground shall have plenty of bread; but he that followeth after vain things is void of understanding.
Argumentative:12 The wicked desireth the prey of evil men; but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.
Argumentative:13 In the transgression of the lips is a snare to the evil man; but the righteous cometh out of trouble.
Argumentative:14 A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the doings of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.
Argumentative:15 The way of a fool is straight in his own eyes; but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
Argumentative:16 A fool's vexation is presently known; but a prudent man concealeth shame.
Argumentative:17 He that breatheth forth truth uttereth righteousness; but a false witness deceit.
Argumentative:18 There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is health.
Argumentative:20 Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
Argumentative:21 There shall no mischief befall the righteous; but the wicked are filled with evil.
Argumentative:23 A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.
Argumentative:25 Care in the heart of a man boweth it down; but a good word maketh it glad.
Argumentative:26 The righteous is guided by his friend; but the way of the wicked leadeth them astray.
Argumentative:27 The slothful man shall not hunt his prey; but the precious substance of men is to be diligent.
Argumentative:28 In the way of righteousness is life, and in the pathway thereof there is no death.
Argumentative:Proverbs13 1 A wise son is instructed of his father; but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
Argumentative:2 A man shall eat good from the fruit of his mouth; but the desire of the faithless is violence.
Argumentative:4 The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be abundantly gratified.
Argumentative:5 A righteous man hateth lying; but a wicked man behaveth vilely and shamefully.
Argumentative:6 Righteousness guardeth him that is upright in the way; but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
Argumentative:7 There is that pretendeth himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that pretendeth himself poor, yet hath great wealth.
Argumentative:8 The ransom of a man's life are his riches; but the poor heareth no threatening.
Argumentative:9 The light of the righteous rejoiceth; but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
Argumentative:10 By pride cometh only contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom.
Argumentative:11 Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished; but he that gathereth little by little shall increase.
Argumentative:12 Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; but desire fulfilled is a tree of life.
Argumentative:13 Whoso despiseth the word shall suffer thereby; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
Argumentative:14 The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Argumentative:15 Good understanding giveth grace; but the way of the faithless is harsh.
Argumentative:16 Every prudent man dealeth with forethought; but a fool unfoldeth folly.
Argumentative:17 A wicked messenger falleth into evil; but a faithful ambassador is health.
Argumentative:19 The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; and it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
Argumentative:20 He that walketh with wise men shall be wise; but the companion of fools shall smart for it.
Argumentative:21 Evil pursueth sinners; but to the righteous good shall be repaid.
Argumentative:22 A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous.
Argumentative:23 Much food is in the tillage of the poor; but there is that is swept away by want of righteousness.
Argumentative:25 The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his desire; but the belly of the wicked shall want.
Argumentative:Proverbs14 1 Every wise woman buildeth her house; but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
Argumentative:2 He that walketh in his uprightness feareth HaShem; but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth Him.
Argumentative:3 In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride; but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
Argumentative:4 Where no oxen are, the crib is clean; but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
Argumentative:5 A faithful witness will not lie; but a false witness breatheth forth lies.
Argumentative:6 A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not; but knowledge is easy unto him that hath discernment.
Argumentative:7 Go from the presence of a foolish man, for thou wilt not perceive the lips of knowledge.
Argumentative:8 The wisdom of the prudent is to look well to his way; but the folly of fools is deceit.
Argumentative:9 Amends pleadeth for fools; but among the upright there is good will.
Argumentative:10 The heart knoweth its own bitterness; and with its joy no stranger can intermeddle.
Argumentative:11 The house of the wicked shall be overthrown; but the tent of the upright shall flourish.
Argumentative:12 There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
Argumentative:13 Even in laughter the heart acheth; and the end of mirth is heaviness.
Argumentative:14 The dissembler in heart shall have his fill from his own ways; and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.
Argumentative:15 The thoughtless believeth every word; but the prudent man looketh well to his going.
Argumentative:16 A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil; but the fool behaveth overbearingly, and is confident.
Argumentative:17 He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly; and a man of wicked devices is hated.
Argumentative:18 The thoughtless come into possession of folly; but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
Argumentative:19 The evil bow before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
Argumentative:20 The poor is hated even of his own neighbour; but the rich hath many friends.
Argumentative:21 He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that is gracious unto the humble, happy is he.
Argumentative:22 Shall they not go astray that devise evil?
Argumentative:But mercy and truth shall be for them that devise good.
Argumentative:23 In all labour there is profit; but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.
Argumentative:24 The crown of the wise is their riches; but the folly of fools remaineth folly.
Argumentative:25 A true witness delivereth souls; but he that breatheth forth lies is all deceit.
Argumentative:26 In the fear of HaShem a man hath strong confidence; and his children shall have a place of refuge.
Argumentative:27 The fear of HaShem is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Argumentative:28 In the multitude of people is the king's glory; but in the want of people is the ruin of the prince.
Argumentative:29 He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
Argumentative:31 He that oppresseth the poor blasphemeth his Maker; but he that is gracious unto the needy honoureth Him.
Argumentative:32 The wicked is thrust down in his misfortune; but the righteous, even when he is brought to death, hath hope.
Argumentative:33 In the heart of him that hath discernment wisdom resteth; but in the inward part of fools it maketh itself known.
Argumentative:35 The king's favour is toward a servant that dealeth wisely; but his wrath striketh him that dealeth shamefully.
Argumentative:Proverbs15 1 A soft answer turneth away wrath; but a grievous word stirreth up anger.
Argumentative:2 The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright; but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
Argumentative:3 The eyes of HaShem are in every place, keeping watch upon the evil and the good.
Argumentative:4 A soothing tongue is a tree of life; but perverseness therein is a wound to the spirit.
Argumentative:5 A fool despiseth his father's correction; but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
Argumentative:6 In the house of the righteous is much treasure; but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
Argumentative:7 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge; but the heart of the foolish is not stedfast.
Argumentative:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to HaShem; but the prayer of the upright is His delight.
Argumentative:9 The way of the wicked is an abomination to HaShem; but He loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
Argumentative:10 There is grievous correction for him that forsaketh the way; and he that hateth reproof shall die.
Argumentative:11 The nether-world and Destruction are before HaShem; how much more then the hearts of the children of men!
Argumentative:13 A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance; but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.
Argumentative:14 The heart of him that hath discernment seeketh knowledge; but the mouth of fools feedeth on folly.
Argumentative:15 All the days of the poor are evil; but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
Argumentative:16 Better is little with the fear of HaShem, than great treasure and turmoil therewith.
Argumentative:17 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
Argumentative:18 A wrathful man stirreth up discord; but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
Argumentative:20 A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Argumentative:21 Folly is joy to him that lacketh understanding; but a man of discernment walketh straightforwards.
Argumentative:22 For want of counsel purposes are frustrated; but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
Argumentative:24 The path of life goeth upward for the wise, that he may depart from the nether-world beneath.
Argumentative:26 The thoughts of wickedness are an abomination to HaShem; but words of pleasantness are pure.
Argumentative:27 He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.
Argumentative:28 The heart of the righteous studieth to answer; but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
Argumentative:29 HaShem is far from the wicked; but He heareth the prayer of the righteous.
Argumentative:30 The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart; and a good report maketh the bones fat.
Argumentative:Proverbs16 1 The preparations of the heart are man's, but the answer of the tongue is from HaShem.
Argumentative:2 All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but HaShem weigheth the spirits.
Argumentative:3 Commit thy works unto HaShem, and thy thoughts shall be established.
Argumentative:4 HaShem hath made every things for His own purpose, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.
Argumentative:5 Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to HaShem; my hand upon it!
Argumentative:6 By mercy and truth iniquity is expiated; and by the fear of HaShem men depart from evil.
Argumentative:7 When a man's ways please HaShem, He maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Argumentative:8 Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice.
Argumentative:9 A man's heart deviseth his way; but HaShem directeth his steps.
Argumentative:10 A divine sentence is in the lips of the king; his mouth trespasseth not in judgment.
Argumentative:11 A just balance and scales are HaShem'S; all the weights of the bag are His work.
Argumentative:12 It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness; for the throne is established by righteousness.
Argumentative:13 Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.
Argumentative:14 The wrath of a king is as messengers of death; but a wise man will pacify it.
Argumentative:15 In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.
Argumentative:16 How much better is it to get wisdom than gold!
Argumentative:yea, to get understanding is rather to be chosen than silver.
Argumentative:17 The highway of the upright is to depart from evil; he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
Argumentative:18 Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Argumentative:19 Better it is to be of a lowly spirit with the humble, than to divide the s
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00081	
Argumentative:10 Now these are Thy servants and Thy people, whom Thou hast redeemed by Thy great power, and by Thy strong hand.
Argumentative:Nehemiah2 1 And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, when wine was before him, that I took up the wine, and gave it unto the king.
Argumentative:2 And the king said unto me: 'Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick?
Argumentative:this is nothing else but sorrow of heart.
Argumentative:3 And I said unto the king: 'Let the king live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire?
Argumentative:and when wilt thou return?
Argumentative:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the River, and gave them the king's letters.
Argumentative:Now the king had sent with me captains of the army and horsemen.
Argumentative:14 Then I went on to the fountain gate and to the king's pool; but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass.
Argumentative:17 Then said I unto them: 'Ye see the evil case that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire; come and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach.
Argumentative:' So they strengthened their hands for the good work.
Argumentative:' 20 Then answered I them, and said unto them: 'The G-d of heaven, He will prosper us; therefore we His servants will arise and build; but ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem.
Argumentative:' Nehemiah3 1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set up the doors of it; even unto the tower of Hammeah they sanctified it, unto the tower of Hananel.
Argumentative:And next unto them repaired Zadok the son of Baana.
Argumentative:5 And next unto them the Tekoites repaired; and their nobles put not their necks to the work of their lord.
Argumentative:And next unto him repaired Hananiah one of the perfumers, and they restored Jerusalem even unto the broad wall.
Argumentative:10 And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even over against his house.
Argumentative:22 And after him repaired the priests, the men of the Plain.
Argumentative:23 After them repaired Benjamin and Hasshub over against their house.
Argumentative:After them repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah beside his own house.
Argumentative:25 Palal the son of Uzai repaired over against the Turning, and the tower that standeth out from the upper house of the king, which is by the court of the guard.
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Nechemiyah - Nehemiah Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Nechemiyah - Nehemiah Ketuvim - The Writings Text: Nehemiah1 | Nehemiah2 | Nehemiah3 | Nehemiah4 | Nehemiah5 | Nehemiah6 | Nehemiah7 | Nehemiah8 | Nehemiah9 | Nehemiah10 | Nehemiah11 | Nehemiah12 | Nehemiah13 Nehemiah1 1 THE WORDS of Nehemiah the son of Hacaliah.
Argumentative:After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh repaired.
Argumentative:-- 26 Now the Nethinim dwelt in Ophel, unto the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that standeth out.
Argumentative:-- 27 After him the Tekoites repaired another portion, over against the great tower that standeth out, and unto the wall of Ophel.
Argumentative:28 Above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one over against his own house.
Argumentative:29 After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against his own house.
Argumentative:After him repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah over against his chamber.
Argumentative:31 After him repaired Malchijah one of the goldsmiths unto the house of the Nethinim, and of the merchants, over against the gate of Hammiphkad, and to the upper chamber of the corner.
Argumentative:will they restore at will?
Argumentative:will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, seeing they are burned?
Argumentative:Nehemiah5 1 Then there arose a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brethren the Jews.
Argumentative:2 For there were that said: 'We, our sons and our daughters, are many; let us get for them corn, that we may eat and live.
Argumentative:' 4 There were also that said: 'We have borrowed money for the king's tribute upon our fields and our vineyards.
Argumentative:5 Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children; and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought into bondage already; neither is it in our power to help it; for other men have our fields and our vineyards.
Argumentative:7 Then I consulted with myself, and contended with the nobles and the rulers, and said unto them: 'Ye lend upon pledge, every one to his brother.
Argumentative:8 And I said unto them: 'We after our ability have redeemed our brethren the Jews, that sold themselves unto the heathen; and would ye nevertheless sell your brethren, and should they sell themselves unto us?
Argumentative:' Then held they their peace, and found never a word.
Argumentative:' 12 Then said they: 'We will restore them, and will require nothing of them; so will we do, even as thou sayest.
Argumentative:13 Also I shook out my lap, and said: 'So G-d shake out every man from his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise; even thus be he shaken out, and emptied.
Argumentative:Nehemiah6 1 Now it came to pass, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and unto the rest of our enemies, that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left therein--though even unto that time I had not set up the doors in the gates-- 2 that Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying: 'Come, let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Ono.
Argumentative:5 Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand; 6 wherein was written: 'It is reported among the nations, and Geshem saith it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel; for which cause thou buildest the wall; and thou wouldest be their king, even according to these words.
Argumentative:' 8 Then I sent unto him, saying: 'There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.
Argumentative:' 9 For they all would have us afraid, saying: 'Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done.
Argumentative:and who is there, that, being such as I, could go into the temple and live?
Argumentative:13 For this cause was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they might taunt me.
Argumentative:Nehemiah7 1 Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 2 that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle, charge over Jerusalem; for he was a faithful man, and feared G-d above many.
Argumentative:3 And I said unto them: 'Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand on guard, let them shut the doors, and bar ye them; and let watches be appointed of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against his house.
Argumentative:The number of the men of the people of Israel: 8 The children of Parosh, two thousand a hundred and seventy and two.
Argumentative:11 The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.
Argumentative:26 The men of Beth-lehem and Netophah, a hundred fourscore and eight.
Argumentative:60 All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two.
Argumentative:65 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.
Argumentative:66 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, 67 beside their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven; and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women.
Argumentative:The Tirshatha gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests' tunics.
Argumentative:71 And some of the heads of fathers' houses gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver.
Argumentative:73 So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities.
Argumentative:And when the seventh month was come, and the children of Israel were in their cities, Nehemiah8 1 all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the broad place that was before the water gate; and they spoke unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the Law of Moses, which HaShem had commanded to Israel.
Argumentative:3 And he read therein before the broad place that was before the water gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women, and of those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the Law.
Argumentative:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people--for he was above all the people--and when he opened it, all the people stood up.
Argumentative:6 And Ezra blessed HaShem, the great G-d. And all the people answered: 'Amen, Amen', with the lifting up of their hands; and they bowed their heads, and fell down before HaShem with their faces to the ground.
Argumentative:7 Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, even the Levites, caused the people to understand the Law; and the people stood in their place.
Argumentative:8 And they read in the book, in the Law of G-d, distinctly; and they gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.
Argumentative:9 And Nehemiah, who was the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people: 'This day is holy unto HaShem your G-d; mourn not, nor weep.
Argumentative:' For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the Law.
Argumentative:' 12 And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them.
Argumentative:13 And on the second day were gathered together the heads of fathers' houses of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the scribe, even to give attention to the words of the Law.
Argumentative:And there was very great gladness.
Argumentative:Nehemiah9 1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackcloth, and earth upon them.
Argumentative:6 Thou art HaShem, even Thou alone; Thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth and all things that are thereon, the seas and all that is in them, and Thou preservest them all; and the host of heaven worshippeth Thee.
Argumentative:7 Thou art HaShem the G-d, who didst choose Abram, and broughtest him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gavest him the name of Abraham; 8 and foundest his heart faithful before Thee, and madest a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite, and the Girgashite, even to give it unto his seed, and hast performed Thy words; for Thou art righteous; 9 And Thou sawest the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heardest their cry by the Red Sea; 10 and didst show signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land; for Thou knewest that they dealt proudly against them; and didst get Thee a name, as it is this day.
Argumentative:11 And Thou didst divide the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their pursuers Thou didst cast into the depths, as a stone into the mighty waters.
Argumentative:18 Yea, when they had made them a molten calf, and said: 'This is thy G-d that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought great provocations; 19 yet Thou in Thy manifold mercies forsookest them not in the wilderness; the pillar of cloud departed not from over them by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to show them light, and the way wherein they should go.
Argumentative:20 Thou gavest also Thy good spirit to instruct them, and withheldest not Thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water for their thirst.
Argumentative:21 Yea, forty years didst Thou sustain them in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feet swelled not.
Argumentative:24 So the children went in and possessed the land, and Thou didst subdue before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gavest them into their hands, with their kings, and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they would.
Argumentative:25 And they took fortified cities, and a fat land, and possessed houses full of all good things, cisterns hewn out, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruit-trees in abundance; so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat, and luxuriated in Thy great goodness.
Argumentative:27 Therefore Thou didst deliver them into the hand of their adversaries, who distressed them; and in the time of their trouble, when they cried unto Thee, Thou heardest from heaven; and according to Thy manifold mercies Thou gavest them saviours who might save them out of the hand of their adversaries.
Argumentative:35 For they have not served Thee in their kingdom, and in Thy great goodness that Thou gavest them, and in the large and fat land which Thou gavest before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.
Argumentative:36 Behold, we are servants this day, and as for the land that Thou gavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof, behold, we are servants in it.
Argumentative:37 And it yieldeth much increase unto the kings whom Thou hast set over us because of our sins; also they have power over our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure, and we are in great distress.
clueweb12-0012wb-00-00083	
Argumentative:' 28 So Joab blew the horn, and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
Argumentative:Ahavat Israel - Tanach: Shmuel B - 2 Samuel Ahavat Israel Am Israel Torat Israel Eretz Israel Jewish Texts Tanach Pirkei Avot Path Just ClassAds Postcard Forum Music Humor Games Books Videos About Feedback Recommend Wallpaper Privacy Copyright Tanach: Shmuel B - 2 Samuel Neviim - The Prophets Text: 2_Samuel1 | 2_Samuel2 | 2_Samuel3 | 2_Samuel4 | 2_Samuel5 | 2_Samuel6 | 2_Samuel7 | 2_Samuel8 | 2_Samuel9 | 2_Samuel10 | 2_Samuel11 | 2_Samuel12 | 2_Samuel13 | 2_Samuel14 | 2_Samuel15 | 2_Samuel16 | 2_Samuel17 | 2_Samuel18 | 2_Samuel19 | 2_Samuel20 | 2_Samuel21 | 2_Samuel22 | 2_Samuel23 | 2_Samuel24 2_Samuel1 1 AND IT came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; 2 it came even to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head; and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and prostrated himself.
Argumentative:' And he answered: 'The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.
Argumentative:' 11 Then David took hold on his clothes, and rent them; and likewise all the men that were with him.
Argumentative:' 14 And David said unto him: 'How wast thou not afraid to put forth thy hand to destroy HaShem'S anointed?
Argumentative:' 17 And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son, 18 and said--To teach the sons of Judah the bow.
Argumentative:Behold, it is written in the book of Jashar: 19 Thy beauty, O Israel, upon thy high places is slain!
Argumentative:20 Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon; lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
Argumentative:21 Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain upon you, neither fields of choice fruits; for there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, not anointed with oil.
Argumentative:22 From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.
Argumentative:23 Saul and Jonathan, the lovely and the pleasant in their lives, even in their death they were not divided; they were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions.
Argumentative:Jonathan upon thy high places is slain!
Argumentative:26 I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan; very pleasant hast thou been unto me; wonderful was thy love to me, passing the love of women.
Argumentative:' 2 So David went up thither, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Argumentative:3 And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household; and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron.
Argumentative:And they told David, saying: 'The men of Jabesh-gilead were they that buried Saul.
Argumentative:' 5 And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, and said unto them: 'Blessed be ye of HaShem, that ye have shown this kindness unto your lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him.
Argumentative:6 And now HaShem show kindness and truth unto you; and I also will requite you this kindness, because ye have done this thing.
Argumentative:' 8 Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul's host, had taken Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim; 9 and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel.
Argumentative:10 Ish-bosheth Saul's son was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years.
Argumentative:16 And they caught every one his fellow by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow's side; so they fell down together; wherefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon.
Argumentative:' 27 And Joab said: 'As G-d liveth, if thou hadst not spoken, surely then only after the morning the people had gone away, every one from following his brother.
Argumentative:29 And Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah; and they passed over the Jordan, and went through all Bithron, and came to Mahanaim.
Argumentative:30 And Joab returned from following Abner; and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of David's servants nineteen men and Asahel.
Argumentative:31 But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin, even of Abner's men--three hundred and threescore men died.
Argumentative:7 Now Saul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah; and Ish-bosheth said to Abner: 'Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine?
Argumentative:' 8 Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ish-bosheth, and said: 'Am I a dog's head that belongeth to Judah?
Argumentative:9 G-d do so to Abner, and more also, if, as HaShem hath sworn to David, I do not even so to him; 10 to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul, and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beer-sheba.
Argumentative:' 13 And he said: 'Well; I will make a league with thee; but one thing I require of thee, that is, thou shalt not see my face, except thou first bring Michal Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face.
Argumentative:' 14 And David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth Saul's son, saying: 'Deliver me my wife Michal, whom I betrothed to me for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines.
Argumentative:' 15 And Ish-bosheth sent, and took her from her husband, even from Paltiel the son of Laish.
Argumentative:17 And Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying: 'In times past ye sought for David to be king over you; 18 now then do it; for HaShem hath spoken of David, saying: By the hand of My servant David I will save My people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.
Argumentative:' 19 And Abner also spoke in the ears of Benjamin; and Abner went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel, and to the whole house of Benjamin.
Argumentative:And David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast.
Argumentative:25 Thou knowest Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive thee, and to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all that thou doest.
Argumentative:' 30 So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner, because he had killed their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.
Argumentative:31 And David said to Joab, and to all the people that were with him: 'Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and wail before Abner.
Argumentative:' And king David followed the bier.
Argumentative:' 36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them; whatsoever the king did, pleased all the people.
Argumentative:39 And I am this day weak, and just anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too hard for me; HaShem reward the evildoer according to his wickedness.
Argumentative:' 2_Samuel4 1 And when Saul's son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his hands became feeble, and all the Israelites were affrighted.
Argumentative:4 Now Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son that was lame of his feet.
Argumentative:5 And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went, and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ish-bosheth, as he took his rest at noon.
Argumentative:11 How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed, shall I not now require his blood of your hand, and take you away from the earth?
Argumentative:' 12 And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up beside the pool in Hebron.
Argumentative:2 In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was thou that didst lead out and bring in Israel; and HaShem said to thee: Thou shalt feed My people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over Israel.
Argumentative:' 3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and king David made a covenant with them in Hebron before HaShem; and they anointed David king over Israel.
Argumentative:6 And the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who spoke unto David, saying: 'Except thou take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither'; thinking: 'David cannot come in hither.
Argumentative:8 And David said on that day: 'Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites, and getteth up to the gutter, and taketh away the lame and the blind, that are hated of David's soul--.
Argumentative:' Wherefore they say: 'There are the blind and the lame; he cannot come into the house.
Argumentative:' 9 And David dwelt in the stronghold, and called it the city of David.
Argumentative:10 And David waxed greater and greater; for HaShem, the G-d of hosts, was with him.
Argumentative:12 And David perceived that HaShem had established him king over Israel, and that He had exalted his kingdom for His people Israel's sake.
Argumentative:17 And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David; and David heard of it, and went down to the hold.
Argumentative:18 Now the Philistines had come and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.
Argumentative:' And HaShem said unto David: 'Go up; for I will certainly deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Argumentative:' 20 And David came to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there; and he said: 'HaShem hath broken mine enemies before me, like the breach of waters.
Argumentative:' Therefore the name of that place was called Baal-perazim.
Argumentative:24 And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself; for then is HaShem gone out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.
Argumentative:5 And David and all the house of Israel played before HaShem with all manner of instruments made of cypress-wood, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with sistra, and with cymbals.
Argumentative:11 And the ark of HaShem remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months; and HaShem blessed Obed-edom, and all his house.
Argumentative:12 And it was told king David, saying: 'HaShem hath blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of G-d.' And David went and brought up the ark of G-d from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with joy.
Argumentative:17 And they brought in the ark of HaShem, and set it in its place, in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before HaShem.
Argumentative:18 And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of HaShem of hosts.
Argumentative:19 And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, both to men and women, to every one a cake of bread, and a cake made in a pan, and a sweet cake.
Argumentative:' 21 And David said unto Michal: 'Before HaShem, who chose me above thy father, and above all his house, to appoint me prince over the people of HaShem, over Israel, before HaShem will I make merry.
Argumentative:22 And I will be yet more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight; and with the handmaids whom thou hast spoken of, with them will I get me honour.
Argumentative:2_Samuel7 1 And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and HaShem had given him rest from all his enemies round about, 2 that the king said unto Nathan the prophet: 'See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of G-d dwelleth within curtains.
Argumentative:9 And I have been with thee whithersoever thou didst go, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a great name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth.
Argumentative:10 And I will appoint a place for My people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be disquieted no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first, 11 even from the day that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel; and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies.
Argumentative:Moreover HaShem telleth thee that HaShem will make thee a house.
Argumentative:12 When thy days are fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, that shall proceed out of thy body, and I will establish his kingdom.
Argumentative:13 He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
Argumentative:' 17 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
Argumentative:for Thou knowest Thy servant, O Lord G-D. 21 For Thy word's sake, and according to Thine own heart, hast Thou wrought all this greatness, to make Thy servant know it.
Argumentative:22 Therefore Thou art great, O LORD G-d; for there is none like Thee, neither is there any G-d beside Thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
Argumentative:23 And who is like Thy people, like Israel, a nation one in the earth, whom G-d went to redeem unto Himself for a people, and to make Him a name, and to do for Thy land great things and tremendous, even for you, in driving out from before Thy people, whom Thou didst redeem to Thee out of Egypt, the nations and their gods?
Argumentative:' 2_Samuel8 1 And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them; and David took Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines.
Argumentative:And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought presents.
Argumentative:5 And when the Arameans of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Arameans two and twenty thousand men.
Argumentative:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
Argumentative:9 And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, 10 then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him--because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him; for Hadadezer had wars with Toi--and he brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass.
Argumentative:13 And David got him a name when he returned from smiting the Arameans in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men.
Argumentative:15 And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people.
Argumentative:2_Samuel9 1 And David said: 'Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?
Argumentative:' And Ziba said unto the king: 'Jonathan hath yet a son, who is lame on his feet.
Argumentative:And David said: 'Mephibosheth!
Argumentative:' And he answered: 'Behold thy servant!
Argumentative:' 7 And David said unto him: 'Fear not; for I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually.
Argumentative:' 9 Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him: 'All that pertained to Saul and to all his house have I given unto thy master's son.
Argumentative:10 And thou shalt till the land for him, thou, and thy sons, and thy servants; and thou shalt bring in the fruits, that thy master's son may have bread to eat; but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall eat bread continually at my table.
Argumentative:' 12 Now Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica.
Argumentative:2 And David said: 'I will show kindness unto Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness unto me.
Argumentative:' So David sent by the hand of his servants to comfort him concerning his father.
Argumentative:And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.
Argumentative:hath not David sent his servants unto thee to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?
Argumentative:' 4 So Hanun took David's servants, and shaved off the one half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.
Argumentative:5 When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them; for the men were greatly ashamed.
Argumentative:' 6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they were become odious to David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Arameans of Beth-rehob, and the Arameans of Zobah, twenty thousand footmen, and the king of Maacah with a thousand men, and the men of Tob twelve thousand men.
Argumentative:7 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the mighty men.
Argumentative:9 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Arameans; 10 and the rest of the people he committed into the hand of Abishai his brother, and he put them in array against the children of Ammon.
Argumentative:12 Be of good courage, and let us prove strong for our people, and for the cities of our G-d; and HaShem do that which seemeth Him good.
Argumentative:' 13 So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh unto the battle against the Arameans; and they fled before him.
Argumentative:14 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Arameans were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, and entered into the city.
Argumentative:15 And when the Arameans saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they gathered themselves together.
Argumentative:18 And the Arameans fled before Israel; and David slew of the Arameans seven hundred drivers of chariots, and forty thousand horsemen, and smote Shobach the captain of their host, so that he died there.
Argumentative:19 And when all the kings that were servants to Hadadezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them.
Argumentative:So the Arameans feared to help the children of Ammon any more.
Argumentative:2 And it came to pass at eventide, that David arose from off his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king's house; and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.
Argumentative:9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.
Argumentative:10 And when they had told David, saying: 'Uriah went not down unto his house', David said unto Uriah: 'Art thou not come from a journey?
Argumentative:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war; 19 and he charged the messenger, saying: 'When thou hast made an end of telling all the things concerning the war unto the king, 20 it shall be that, if the king's wrath arise, and he say unto thee: Wherefore went ye so nigh unto the city to fight?
Argumentative:knew ye not that they would shoot from the wall?
Argumentative:why went ye so nigh the wall?
Argumentative:24 And the shooters shot at thy servants from off the wall; and some of the king's servants are dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
Argumentative:27 And when the mourning was past, David sent and took her home to his house, and she became his wife, and bore him a son.
Argumentative:But the thing that David had done displeased HaShem.
Argumentative:2 The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds; 3 but the poor man had nothing save one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and reared; and it grew up together with him, and with his children; it did eat of his own morsel, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.
Argumentative:4 And there came a traveller unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him, but took the poor man's lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to him.
Argumentative:' 5 And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he said to Nathan: 'As HaShem liveth, the man that hath done this deserveth to die; 6 and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.
Argumentative:' 7 And Nathan said to David: 'Thou art the man.
Argumentative:Thus saith HaShem, the G-d of Israel: I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul; 8 and I gave thee thy master's house, and thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah; and if that were too little, then would I add unto thee so much more.
Argumentative:11 Thus saith HaShem: Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house, and I will take thy wives before thine eyes, and give them unto thy neighbour, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of this sun.
